sunny savita: Hello everyone, I'm Oracle.
sunny savita: Okay, guys, so I am audible now. Can you hear me? Great.
sunny savita: So, we'll start the session. Let me share the timer, guys. Let everyone join. We'll start within 3 minutes. I hope everyone is able to see the timer right.
sunny savita: Great guy. So, we'll start within 3 minutes, let everyone join. Thank you.
sunny savita: Okay, guys, can you hear me? I'm audible and visible to all of you. Can you please confirm in the chat?
sunny savita: Great.
sunny savita: So, let's begin, let's start with the session. I hope I am audible and visible. Great.
sunny savita: Yeah, thank you, Ritesh. Thank you very much.
sunny savita: Perfect, guys. So let's start, let's begin with the class. So in the previous class, guys, I just went through with the topic. I, give you, I given you the quick introduction of the Gen AI, and, basically, I discussed about the VS Code, right? VS Code Copilot, GitHub Copilot.
sunny savita: And, even along with that, I shared a couple of, detail and the different, different links, right? So, in the previous class, guys, I, shared this, I shared this Google Sheet link.
sunny savita: This is, basically our notice board. We are, basically will find out all the details regarding the classes, regarding the upcoming classes.
sunny savita: holiday calendar and all, everything is going to be available over here, okay? So, just a second, let me share my complete screen, and please give me a quick confirmation, guys, if you can see my screen.
sunny savita: If it is visible to all of you, if you can see my entire screen, please let me know in the chat.
sunny savita: Yeah, visible? Great. So guys, this is a Google Sheet, which I shared in the previous class. So, this is going to be our, notice board, where, basically we'll find out the complete detail regarding the upcoming classes.
sunny savita: And even the holiday calendar will be available over here. So again, I'm sharing this particular link with all of you in the chat. Once you got it, please let me know. Just keep it with you, right? Now, apart from this one, guys, I shared one GitHub also, so over the GitHub, over the… under this repository.
sunny savita: you will find out all the resources and all everything. So, it means if you're, if you're not able to download the resources, if you're not, if you don't want to visit the website again and again, you can directly check out all the resources over here as well, okay? So, please, keep this link with you. I'm sharing again in the chat.
sunny savita: So, guys, once you got it, please let me know. Now, apart from that, guys, let me show you the resources from the previous class as well. So, just give me a moment, let me show you where you will find out the resources of the previous class.
sunny savita: So this is your dashboard. Once you will go and check with your core section, once you will click over here, you will get your dashboard, okay? So just click over here, go inside the preview section.
sunny savita: Check out the live class, okay, under the live class, under the resource section, you will find out all the resources with respect to the live classes, guys, okay? Great.
sunny savita: Now, guys, let's begin, let's start with the session. So, may I know how many of you you joined the first time? If you joined the first time, guys, what you have to do, you just have to go through with the website, creation.academy.com.
sunny savita: Over here, please check out the live class, okay? In the live class section, guys, all the three recordings are uploaded.
sunny savita: Here, for the more detail, you can check out with the induction session. So, inside the induction session, you will find out the complete detail about the website, about the resources, videos, prerequisites, each and everything. You will get it over here, if you are the newcomer, okay? If you are joining this session first time, right?
sunny savita: No guys, one more thing. See, let me clarify some basic doubts over here. I think many people are asking about the recording, right? I can see in the group chat, in the committee chat, they are asking about the recording. So, recording takes at least 12 hours, guys. 12 to 24 hours.
sunny savita: Okay? Whenever we promise to our student, we promise for the 24-hour window. Why? Because, see, even this thing is not in our hand. Whenever it's going to be processed, whenever it's going to be processed through the Zoom only, then only we can upload it now over here.
sunny savita: This session is happening over the Zoom, okay? So, whenever Zoom is giving us that recording after the processing, then only we can upload it over the dashboard, right? So, even though we want to upload it within 2 hours, within 3 hours, but we cannot do it.
sunny savita: Why? Because we are not getting that video, recorded video, from the Zoom end, right? So, guys, please be patient. Within 24 hours itself, you will get the recorded video. Is it, it is clear to everyone? Yes or no? Making sense now?
sunny savita: Because I can see many people are writing again and again in the committee chat, and I think this is not good.
sunny savita: Now, one more thing I would like to clarify over here. I was just looking into the chat. Okay, so someone is saying, sir, why you are teaching the VS Code, why you are, going through with the introduction, why you are, like, not starting with the full-fledged end-to-end project in the first class itself, or any topic.
sunny savita: Guys, see, yesterday was my first class, right? First time I came into your class.
sunny savita: Right? And there are so many new people. I know you are very experienced, you are very smart, very skillful, but there are so many people, right? And even, see, this is not our first batch.
sunny savita: We have conducted, like, 50 to 20 batches before this one. We have taught, like, legs of a student. You can check with our previous batches, our Udemy courses, our YouTube and all everything. So we know how to drive the classes, how to drive the batches. So don't worry, guys, just, sit, like, relax, okay, over the, like, screen.
sunny savita: and, learn along with us. So, this, kind of discussion should not be there again, right? What you're, why you are teaching this VS Code and all, because, see, so many people are the fresher over here, right, who joined the first time.
sunny savita: they don't even know what is a VS Code, what is an environment and all. So we have to think for those people also, right? We are thinking about those new folks, those new, basically, new joine, okay, those fresher, and even the mid-level of experience, or even someone is transitioning from different technology to this generative AI.
sunny savita: Right? So as a teacher, guys, as a mentor, I have to think about those people also.
sunny savita: So, please understand, guys, be patient. See, when I was a student, means when I was attending classes during my college, and during my initial year of career, right? So, even I was in the same situation. I know the thing, I know Python, I know machine learning, but whenever I was joining any sort of a course.
sunny savita: I was listening, because I know. I know that thing, but someone don't know about it.
sunny savita: So please, guys, think about some other means, some other people also, okay? And, don't be in a hurry, be patient, everything will cover in the live session itself. Got it? Great.
sunny savita: Okay, fine. So, now let's begin with the class, guys. Here is the blackboard. I hope it is visible to all of you. Can you please confirm in the chat if you can see my blackboard?
sunny savita: Okay, good. Now, guys, today, basically we are going to discuss about the encoding and embedding, and this is, going to be our first chapter.
sunny savita: Now, what we'll do, guys, this is our VS Code. Now, first, let's set up the environment, let's install the recline.txt, so that, along with the theory, we can perform the practical also. So, inside, this particular folder, I created one folder, okay? This, full-stack, GenAI Bootcamp 1.0.
sunny savita: Inside that folder, I created multiple folder, date-wise, okay? Class-wise. So today, basically, it's a class 3, and the date is 29th of March, okay? Now what I'm doing, guys, I'm just going to be increase the size, the font size, so that everyone can see over here.
sunny savita: I hope my VS Code is visible to all of you, right? Please, give me quick confirmation in the chat, if you can see my VS Code.
sunny savita: Okay, perfect. Now here, guys, what I have done, I have created a folder. The folder name is going to be Class 3, 29th of March. Now here, guys, I created one file. The file name is going to be requirement.txt.
sunny savita: So, here I kept all the library, for the today's class, for the today's session. So, along with the theory, we'll perform the practical also, okay? So, I will share this recline.txt with all of you.
sunny savita: But before that, what I will do, guys, I will create an environment, and inside that particular environment, I'm going to install all this requirement. Okay, all those… all this required module.
sunny savita: And I will share this requirement.txt with all of you, so that you can also download all this requirement, okay? Now guys, if you will go and check with my previous class, so inside my previous class, I shared one, link with all of you, this Notion link.
sunny savita: And even this notes is available under the folder. So, if you will go and check with class 02 folder, so under that particular folder, you will find out these particular notes, okay? This particular commands. So, again, I'm sharing with all of you, and, you can
sunny savita: keep it with you, and I will give you in the PDF format.
sunny savita: So, first guys, the first and the foremost thing, what I'm going to do over here, I'm going to create a virtual environment, okay? Now, here is a command for creating a virtual environment. So, please create virtual environment along with me. Please download all the requirements over there, then we'll understand about the theory, the complete foundation and all everything about the embedding, and then we'll perform the practical over here itself, okay?
sunny savita: So is the agenda is clear to all of you? Can I get quick yes or no, at least?
sunny savita: Let me delete this, previous environment. Again, I will create in front of you.
sunny savita: And in backend, along with me, guys, Yash and Devesh is also there. So whatever query you have, the basic query, you can write in the chat, and Yash and Diveesh will reply to you, okay?
sunny savita: Okay. If you have already created a virtual environment, yes, there only you can download the, requirement.txt file, okay? Or again, inside the new folder, for the new practical, you can create. As much as virtual environment you can create. Not only one, you can create even hundreds of virtual environments inside your system, okay?
sunny savita: Now guys, what I'm doing here, so first let me delete this environment, which I created, earlier. Now what I will do, guys, so here, I will go with this view.
sunny savita: Let me delete it.
sunny savita: Okay, environment is, getting deleted. Now, what I will do, guys, I will open the new terminal. Okay, this is the new terminal. After opening the new terminal, I will write, some commands over here. Okay, so the first command, what I'm going to write over here, let me tell you. So, I'm going to be writing this ubpython list.
sunny savita: I hope, guys, in everyone's system, you have UV. If you don't have UV inside your system, please go and check with the previous session, and please, set up this UV inside your system, okay? Now, what I will do, guys, so over here.
sunny savita: Okay, so what I will do, guys, over here, I will write a command, UV, Python.
sunny savita: list. Okay, so once I will write this UBPython list, I will be getting a different, different version of the Python.
sunny savita: I hope everyone is getting this version, everyone is able to get this version of the Python. Please let me know in the chat, after writing this UV Python list.
sunny savita: Now, over here, guys, for my practical, for my development, I'm going to use either Python 3.11 or 3.12, okay, because these are the more stable version compared to the other version of the Python.
sunny savita: So here, for this particular practical, I'm going to use, for this particular practical, guys, I'm going to use, Python 3.11. Okay, so you can see, I already have Python 3.1
sunny savita: 11 over here, so I will select this Python 3.11, okay, this one, and I will try to create a new virtual environment, right? So first, let me delete the previous environment, which I already created. Let me show you everything from scratch.
sunny savita: I'm just going to be deleted. I think something is open, that's why it is not aligned to me. Just a second, let me kill my… all the terminal, okay?
sunny savita: Give me a moment, guys. I'm restarting this PS code.
sunny savita: Okay, so this is fine. Now I can delete it.
sunny savita: And I can open it.
sunny savita: Yeah, 3.12 or 3.11, anything you can. With anything, you can create a virtual environment. If 3.12 is not working, try to work with 3.11, okay? If 3.1, 3.11 is giving you some issue, then work with 3.12. I'm giving you two options.
sunny savita: 3.13, basically, see, with 3.13, actually, you might get some issue, so that's why I'm not suggesting 3.13 and 3.14. Okay, so better, guys, you can use whatever Python version I'm using over here.
sunny savita: Now what I'm doing, just give me a moment, I'm going to open this particular folder inside the
sunny savita: CMD, now here I can open my VS Code.
sunny savita: So my VS Code is here.
sunny savita: And now I can create an environment.
sunny savita: If you are getting such issue now, means if you are not able to delete the environment or anything, basically, so please restart the VS Code, close it, and again, try to open that.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: Now what I'm doing, I am going to open my terminal, so here is the terminal. Now, what I will do over here, I will write UB,
sunny savita: Python list.
sunny savita: Then, guys, what I will do, I will select the appropriate version of the Python, okay, which is going to be 3.11. So, UB, VENB, this is the command for creating a virtual environment, then ENV, then I'll write Python over here, okay? This is going to be a parameter.
sunny savita: And then what I will do, guys, so here I will select this Python 3.11. So this Python 3.11, it is already there inside my system. Here you can see, at this particular system. If it is not there, you can pull that, okay? You can download that, right? With the UV command only, you can download.
sunny savita: Now, what I will do, guys, I will select this version, version of the Python. Now, I will paste it over here, and after that, guys, what I will do, I will hit the enter.
sunny savita: Now, as soon as I will hit the enter, I will get… what I will get, guys, I will get this, virtual environment. See, this ENV has created.
sunny savita: Now, I can select this, I can select this…
sunny savita: activate, path, okay, and then I can paste it over here. Now, see, guys, virtual environment is created. I think you already know how to create a virtual environment, so I no need to tell you again and again, okay? If you don't know, guys, even you can check out with the previous classes, and even I shared the command with all of you, you can follow the same command.
sunny savita: And even the command is going to be same for the MAC system.
sunny savita: So, if you are using the MAC system, in that case also, the command is going to be same. Now, what I will do, guys, here I will write UB, UB,
sunny savita: Python.
sunny savita: UB Python, sorry, UB pip, Install hyphen R.
sunny savita: requirement.txt. Now, once I will write this ub pipipinstall hyen r requirement.txt, I'll be able to install my ALDA requirement inside my virtual environment, okay? In your case, maybe it might take some time if you are doing it first time, but yeah.
sunny savita: With a UB, basically, it won't take much time. Now, what I'm doing, guys, I'm giving you this, require.txt, so that you can also install inside your virtual environment, okay? So, just give me a moment, I'm, giving you this require.txt.
sunny savita: now I'm committing it, and then I am… pushing it, okay?
sunny savita: So, you will find out this requirement.txt over the GitHub. So, give me a moment, I am sharing this file.
sunny savita: So, please open my GitHub, guys. Now, here, just refresh this, just refresh this folder, just refresh my GitHub. Now, over here, guys, inside the GitHub only, you will find out this recline.txt. Can you see this recline.txt?
sunny savita: Over here.
sunny savita: I hope it is visible to all of you. Now, what I'm doing, I am sharing the link of this GitHub repository.
sunny savita: I'm sharing in the chat, and, can someone share in the committee chat also? So that, if, someone is not having it, then, they can also look into their… this GitHub, okay? And they can take all the requirement from this particular file.
sunny savita: Even you can fork it, guys. Sorry, you can clone it.
sunny savita: And whenever I'm making any sort of changes over here inside this GitHub.
sunny savita: you can directly take it, okay? You can directly pull it inside your system.
sunny savita: Nope.
sunny savita: If you're not able to copy the link, just click on that. Automatically, it's going to be open inside your browser.
sunny savita: Got it, guys? Please give me quick confirmation if you're able to get this recline.txte, so that I can proceed.
sunny savita: Inside this recan.txt, I have mentioned each and everything, whatever is required for today's practical.
sunny savita: I'm, waiting for one minute, guys. Once you are done, once you are ready, please let me know, okay?
sunny savita: And I created one folder. The folder name is Class 3, 29th of March. Now, here, what I'm doing, I'm going to create a file name. The file name is going to be Encoding.
sunny savita: embedding.
sunny savita: dot IPYNB.
sunny savita: Okay, so what I've done, I've created one file inside this particular folder. Now, what I will do, guys, I will select a kernel over here. See, this is my current kernel. Now, after selecting a kernel, I will open the code shell, and here I will write print
sunny savita: All.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: Now, once I will write this print all OK, guys, I can see over here, I can see my message.
sunny savita: If everyone is able to get it, please let me know. I'm giving you one minute of break until… please, do confirm in the chat if you are able to set up it, okay? Now, what I'm doing, guys, I'm giving you this particular file also, this encoding and embedding.
sunny savita: So, just wait, I'm adding it.
sunny savita: Okay, guys, so I pushed this particular file. Please go and check with the GitHub. Over the GitHub itself, you will find it out.
sunny savita: So you can directly take it from here itself. Got it, guys? Yes or no?
sunny savita: So, last command. See, all the command is mentioned over here, you can check out.
sunny savita: UB version, you can check the UB version. If UB is not here, you can install the UB. You can init the UB, okay? You can skip this command as of now. Only this command is required, ubpython list and UB.
sunny savita: This one, VNB, okay? Create a virtual environment. What I can do for the class 3, again, I can create one more Notion one, one more Notion file, just give me a moment.
sunny savita: And I'm sharing all the latest command over there, okay? Bit.
sunny savita: So, creating a new page, and the new page is, the name of the new page is going to be Class 03.
sunny savita: So I'm going to be write all the commands over here itself, okay? Just give me a second.
sunny savita: So, class 03.
sunny savita: And this is going to be… Embedding and encoding.
sunny savita: Now, here, what I'm doing, I'm writing all the latest command.
sunny savita: Give me a moment.
sunny savita: Mmm… History Dosky. I think this is the correct one.
sunny savita: Hmm, okay, no worries, I can write it, myself.
sunny savita: So, one is going to be UBPython list.
sunny savita: The second is going to be UBVENB.
sunny savita: ENB, this is your virtual… this is the virtual environment name, you can write any sort of a name over here.
sunny savita: That's going to be Python.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: mention.
sunny savita: Python version, okay?
sunny savita: use Python 3.11 for this particular practical.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: use Python 3.11 for this particular practica, so that you won't face any sort of issue with respect to any library. Got it? I'm sharing this link, with all of you.
sunny savita: So that you can… Keep it with you.
sunny savita: So, regarding each and every class, guys, I can create one Notion file, and even I will keep it over the GitHub itself, okay?
sunny savita: So, copying the link, and giving to all of you.
sunny savita: Yeah, it is a step-by-step only.
sunny savita: Okay? Just check out the Python list with the UB and create a virtual environment.
sunny savita: So guys, give me a final confirmation if your Jupyter notebook is working, and if we can start with the, encoding and embedding.
sunny savita: why it is not working, use 3.11, that's what I'm saying. And if you're facing any such issue, you can let me know in a doubt session, I'll look over here.
sunny savita: Okay, guys, one more minute, I'm waiting. Please do this setup. Install the require.txt, and be ready with your IPvYnv5. If anyone facing any such issue, with the environment setup, or require.txt.
sunny savita: Don't worry, guys, I will, look into the doubt session, okay? In the doubt session, basically, I'll, help you out.
sunny savita: I added one more command, you can check out with this particular command, okay?
sunny savita: Ub pipipinstall hyphen our recurrent.txt.
sunny savita: just create IPvindb file in a Jupyter, and you can write all the code and all everything over there, okay?
sunny savita: Yes, you will automatically get a path, you will automatically get a path for activating the environment. If you're not getting, you can directly check it over here.
sunny savita: Just click on the environment. Now, over here, click on the script. Here, you will get the activation path, okay? Just copy this activate, path, and paste it on your terminal. That's it. I think in the first class, already we have taught you, right?
sunny savita: Yeah, see, you have to, basically, you have to, install this Python 3.11. Now, let me tell you how to do that. Even though, see, if you will open your CMD,
sunny savita: Right?
sunny savita: Now, over here, over the CMD, guys, let's say you have installed Python 3.14. If you're writing Python over here.
sunny savita: And let's say if you're getting 3.14. I think many of you, you are getting this 3.14, right?
sunny savita: If you are writing it over the terminal or somewhere. Maybe by default you have this. Maybe by default you have this inside your system.
sunny savita: But, still you can check out, right? Still you can create a virtual environment with the different Python version. So what you have to do here, you just have to write one command, ubpython list. So you will get all the Python list, whatever is being provided by the UB.
sunny savita: Now, whatever version of the Python you want to install, let's say I wanted to install this 3.10, okay? This one, this version. So, I will write one simple command over here. Now, my command is going to be what? UB.
sunny savita: Python.
sunny savita: UB Python.
sunny savita: Install.
sunny savita: Okay? Now, once I will write this ubpython install, and I will provide the…
sunny savita: I will provide the name of this CPython. And again, I'm saying, guys, use the CPython only.
sunny savita: Use the CPython interpreter only. Don't use this PyPi or this grill pie, okay? G-R-A-A-L-P-Y, okay? Don't use this one. Use only CPython interpreter.
sunny savita: Now, you just need to write this command UBPython install, and you just have to write the Python name over here. You have to write the Python interpreter name. Once you will hit enter, guys, you will get that specific version of the Python inside your system. And with that, what you can do, you can create a virtual environment.
sunny savita: Understood, guys? Now, once you will check again, once you will write over here, UBPython list, so you automatically, automatically you will get this Python 3.10 inside your system.
sunny savita: And now you can create a virtual environment using this 3.10 also, right? So I'm going to be write this, one more command, right? And after that, guys, I will start with the theoretical concept. So, ubpython install.
sunny savita: Do you be?
sunny savita: Python install.
sunny savita: and write.
sunny savita: Give the… is specific.
sunny savita: version of the… Python, okay? Now, one more important note, guys, use only C, Python.
sunny savita: Inter.
sunny savita: printer, okay? Use only CPython interpreter, don't use any other interpreter, right? Now, here I can give you this particular command over here, so that…
sunny savita: you can install.
sunny savita: Understood, guys? So even though you have… even though you have Python 3.14 inside your system, but you can create a virtual environment with any of the Python version. So this is very important. This is the important thing, right?
sunny savita: Okay, great, fine, perfect. Now, let's begin. I hope, guys, you can see my, you can see my blackboard, just give me quick confirmation.
sunny savita: After that, we'll start with the practical.
sunny savita: Now what we are doing, we are going to start with the encoding and embedding. Now, this is, basically going to be our, first topic, first module. So, what is an encoding and what is an embedding? Okay, so let me write over here, and after that, basically, we'll, come to the practical part.
sunny savita: Okay, so I prepared, some sort of a note. Okay, I will, share with all of you, means I, written some text and all, already in my notepad.
sunny savita: I can directly, give… I can directly copy and paste inside my Blackboard, okay? So, for the better understanding.
sunny savita: So, guys, today's, today, guys, we'll talk about, this particular topic, encoding and embedding. Now, what is the meaning of it? Have you no, have you learned this encoding and embedding before as well? Do you have any sort of idea? I think yes, right? Many of you, you know. Many of you, you don't know. Okay.
sunny savita: So, here, basically what I'm writing, I am writing a very simple definition of this encoding and embedding, right? And with that, basically, you will understand what it is. Now, encoding means what? Encoding means it's a numerical representation of the data, right?
sunny savita: Now, over here, let me write, what is the meaning of the encoding? So, encoding means numerical representation of the data.
sunny savita: And what is the meaning of the embedding, guys? Embedding meaning, meaningful numerical representation. I hope, guys, this thing is clear to all of you. So, encoding is called the numerical representation, and embedding is called the meaningful numerical representation, okay?
sunny savita: So guys, if we're talking about the encoding, right, so let me write over here. I can give you the step-by-step definition. Each and everything I have summarized in a beautiful way, okay? And even I can discuss, along with, all the practical concepts.
sunny savita: Now over here, guys, just focus on this encoding definition, right? So, I've given you the crisp and clear definition of the encoding. So, we're talking about the encoding, guys. What is the encoding? Encoding means converting raw data, okay? Converting raw data. And generally, I'm talking about text over here.
sunny savita: Here, basically, we're talking about the text, okay? So, converting the raw data, or text data, into the numerical form, right? And often, guys, it's going to be a sparse vector. So, anyone know about the sparse vector? What is a sparse vector?
sunny savita: And I think many of you, even though you don't know about the vector, what is a vector? So, definitely we'll talk about the vector as well. Okay, so a sparse vector, basically, is going to be a zero vector, okay? Means, you will find out the zero value over there. You will find out the zero inside the vector.
sunny savita: If we're talking about the sparse vector, so most of the value, basically, it's going to be 0 inside the vector.
sunny savita: So…
sunny savita: What is an encoding? Encoding means converting raw data into the numerical data, numerical representation, or numerical vector, without necessarily preserving a semantic meaning. So here, guys, we are not going to be… we are not going to be, basically preserve a semantic meaning of the data, okay? Now, this is a count-based method.
sunny savita: Right? This is a count-based method. Means, we are just, going to be count… we are just going to be check the frequency of the bird, and based on that only, we are going to be create a vector, okay? We are going to be create a final vector.
sunny savita: Okay, now over here, guys, I written a couple of methods. So, the first is going to be the one-hot encoding. It is a very well-known method.
sunny savita: For what? For the encoding. The second is going to be VOW. Can anyone tell me the meaning of the BOW?
sunny savita: BOW means what? Bag of words. Okay, so over here I can write…
sunny savita: BOW is going to be bag off.
sunny savita: Words.
sunny savita: Right? Now, a TF-IDF, what is the meaning of the TF-IDF? Have you heard about the TF-IDF, before as well?
sunny savita: I think yes, right? So the full form of the TF-IDF is going to be term frequency, Right? And…
sunny savita: Invoice document.
sunny savita: document.
sunny savita: frequency.
sunny savita: Right?
sunny savita: Now, these all are the method, actually. With that, what we can do, we can create a encoded vector, right? Ngrams in one of the… is one of the techniques. BM25, right? Again, BM25, actually, it's a extension of the TFIDF, but it's a ranking algorithm. This particular algorithm, actually, we use inside the RAG system.
sunny savita: Whenever we talk about the retrieval, right, inside the rag, so at that time, at that time, what we do, we
sunny savita: We basically talk about this BM25. I will show you the practical use of it.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: I'll discuss the practical use of this BM35. Now, again, the one more technique is going to be a glove. So, glub is what? GLUB is a global vector, right? It is a count-based vector. It's a metrics factorization-based technique. So, these all are the… these all are what? These all are the, basically technique. With that, what we can do, we can create a
sunny savita: We can, convert our data into the vectors, okay?
sunny savita: where we can convert our, basically, text data, or not only the text, nowadays, basically, we can convert any sort of a data into the vectors, right? Now, maybe you must be thinking, Sunny, what is a vector? I didn't understand what is a vector, okay? So, I will, discuss about that, what is a vector now.
sunny savita: Now, over here, I can write over a different page. Now, what is a vector, guys? So, vector is nothing, it is a…
sunny savita: Set of value.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: Vector is nothing, it is a… Set off.
sunny savita: numerical.
sunny savita: value.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: Now, let's say if I'm going to be right like this.
sunny savita: what I'm going to be right, guys? Let's say if I'm going to be right like this, 5.
sunny savita: Now, is this going to be a vector?
sunny savita: Is this going to be a vector? No. This is…
sunny savita: Not a vector. Okay? This is not a vector. So what is this, guys? This is a scalar value.
sunny savita: Okay
sunny savita: This is what? This is the scalar value. Now, let's say if I'm going to be right like this.
sunny savita: 5.
sunny savita: Or 10.
sunny savita: Is this a vector, guys? Tell me.
sunny savita: Yes, this is a… vector.
sunny savita: Okay? This is what? This is a vector. Now, if I'm going to be right like this, 5?
sunny savita: 10.
sunny savita: 2… 4.
sunny savita: Now, tell me, guys, what is this?
sunny savita: So this is going to be a… metrics.
sunny savita: Okay? So whenever we represent the data, whenever we represent the data, okay, this is not a vector.
sunny savita: This is… Not a vector.
sunny savita: This is what? This is the… is scalar value.
sunny savita: Understood, guys? Yes or no? Now, this is what? This is the vector, and here is what? Here is a matrix. Now, whenever we represent our data, whenever we represent our data, okay.
sunny savita: Whenever we represent our data in deep learning.
sunny savita: Right? Whenever we present our data in generative AI, Okay?
sunny savita: We always represent our data in the form of vectors.
sunny savita: And in the form of matrixes.
sunny savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Is it clear to all of you? Tell me. Now, we're talking about the metrics, guys, so what is the metrics?
sunny savita: Can we say this matrix is nothing, it is a… Collection of vectors only.
sunny savita: Right?
sunny savita: It is a collection of metrics. Whether we are, looking from the row end.
sunny savita: Or whether we are looking from the column end, right?
sunny savita: So, this is what, this is a collection of metrics. So, we can say over here.
sunny savita: metric… sorry, collection of vectors. So we can say over here, metrics is nothing, it is a collection of…
sunny savita: vector.
sunny savita: Making sense to all of you? Yes or no? Is it, getting clear to all of you? If it is clear, you can give me quick thumbs up so that I can proceed.
sunny savita: And even I can, give you, some, basically I return some sort of a points I can share with all of you, okay? Just give me a moment.
sunny savita: I written a certain example,
sunny savita: I can keep it over the blackboard itself. So I hope, guys, you understood the meaning of the vector. So what is a vector? If someone is going to be asking you, what is a vector? Vector is nothing, it is just a collection of the value. See, I've written the same thing over here.
sunny savita: So, difference between, value… sorry, difference between scalar value, vector, and the matrix. So, scalar value, basically, it's just going to be a single value. Vector, basically, it's a collection of the value.
sunny savita: And metrics is what? Metrics, basically, it's a grid of number, okay? Or else we can say, metrics is what? It's a collection of the vector, right? It is a collection of the vector.
sunny savita: Now, over here, guys, what I written, the definition of the, vector, basically. So, a vector is a numerical representation, right? Numerical representation of the data in an n-dimensional space. So, if I'm going to be right like this.
sunny savita: Can anyone tell me in how many dimensions the data is being represented over here?
sunny savita: The data is being represented in.
sunny savita: four dimension.
sunny savita: Okay? If I'm going to be right like this, if I'm going to be right like this, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
sunny savita: Now, tell me, guys, in how many dimensions the data is being represented. The data is being represented in the 6th dimension.
sunny savita: Okay? So what is a vector, guys? Vector is nothing, it is a n-dimensional space. Now, in mathematical vector, okay, in mathematics, vector comes from the linear algebra. All agree, guys? Yes or no?
sunny savita: Yes or no?
sunny savita: Right? So vector is what? Vector, basically, it comes from the linear algebra. A vector is a list of numbers, as I already told you. In NLP, guys, embedding is nothing, it is a vector, right? Vector with the meaningful values.
sunny savita: So if I'm saying embedding, guys, so it is an AI-specific term, right? And vector is what? Vector, basically, it's a mathematical-specific term. So if I'm going to be right over here, vector.
sunny savita: So it's nothing, it's a collection of the value.
sunny savita: Collection of the value in the n-dimensional space.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: and dimensional space. And this vector is nothing, it is a mathematical term.
sunny savita: Right?
sunny savita: In mathematics specifically, we always demonstrate this vector with the magnitude.
sunny savita: With the magnitude plus the direction. I'll discuss about this thing.
sunny savita: Right?
sunny savita: I will discuss about this thing. Now, if we're talking about the embedding, guys, so what is the embedding? We are talking about the embedding.
sunny savita: So, embedding is nothing. Embedding, basically, it's a… NLP-specific term.
sunny savita: Okay? Or, in broader way, I can say it's an AI-specific term.
sunny savita: The meaning is same. Embedding is nothing. It's a collection of the value, it's a vector only.
sunny savita: Okay? It's a vector of the meaningful number.
sunny savita: vector of… meaningful number.
sunny savita: You will get to know in some time what is this meaningful. Meaningful?
sunny savita: numbers.
sunny savita: Okay? So if I'm saying embedding, if I'm saying vector, if I'm saying vector embedding, both is fine. It is nothing, it is just a collection of value. It is just collection of numbers. Is it making sense to all of you? Yes or no?
sunny savita: Yes?
sunny savita: Yes or no, guys? How's the explanation? Are you able to understand everything? This notes is useful for all of you? Yes or no? Okay. Now, over here, guys, you can see, so I kept a couple of more examples.
sunny savita: Can you tell me, is it a matrix?
sunny savita: Is this a matrix?
sunny savita: It's a 2x2 matrix.
sunny savita: Okay? It's a 2x2 matrix. Now, here, guys, you can see there is one more matrix.
sunny savita: This is?
sunny savita: 3x2 metrics.
sunny savita: Okay? This is 3x2 metrics. Now, over here, guys, you can see it is… 2x3 metrics.
sunny savita: Okay? Why it is 2x3? So, here, guys, we always represent the metrics in this way.
sunny savita: Row, and… column.
sunny savita: Now, the first value basically is representing a row, the second value is representing a column. So, if I'm writing 3x2, means 3 rows and 2 columns. And metrics is nothing, it is just a collection of vectors, so we can discriminate it like this.
sunny savita: That's it, guys.
sunny savita: Okay, so I just provided you one additional information, that is matrix, but we just have to focus over the vector.
sunny savita: We just have to focus over the vector. Okay, and what is a vector, guys? Vector is nothing, it is a…
sunny savita: Collection.
sunny savita: off… Numbers.
sunny savita: Got it, guys? Yes or no? And I think you heard one more term over here, that is going to be encoding or embedding.
sunny savita: Right? So, encoding, also, we are going to be represented in the form of vector.
sunny savita: And encoding or embedding also, we are going to be representing the form of vector.
sunny savita: Now, encoding, this particular method, actually, it's a count-based method.
sunny savita: Count-based method.
sunny savita: It's a frequency-based method.
sunny savita: It's a frequency-based method. Now, we're talking about this embedding, guys, so this embedding is a neural network-based method.
sunny savita: So it's a neural network-based method, or it is transformer-based method.
sunny savita: The same transformer, attention, all you need.
sunny savita: Getting my point, guys? So these are the main differences between the encoding and the embedding.
sunny savita: I will give you more example, even I will show you in terms of practical.
sunny savita: Getting my point, guys? We'll go step by step. We'll go step by step. So, is it clear, guys, to all of you?
sunny savita: Yeah, this is the metrics. What is the dimension of it? The same, 2 by 2.
sunny savita: parameter, okay?
sunny savita: Now, over here, guys, what we are going to be do… see, we are going to be start from the vector first, okay? Let me tell you the… a little more thing about the vector. Let me discuss couple of more things, with all of you with respect to this vector, okay?
sunny savita: Once you are, confident with the vector, guys, then I will discuss, the encoding and the embedding part, okay? I'll come over there.
sunny savita: Yeah, just give me a moment.
sunny savita: Yeah, everything I will discuss, encoding versus embedding and all everything, okay?
sunny savita: Great.
sunny savita: So someone is asking, sir, will you share this,
sunny savita: scribble notes. Yes, I will share Yuna, share with Yuna, this is only for you. Okay, this is only for you. Now, guys, I'm going to be stop my camera so that you can access the entire screen. Is it fine for all of you? Yes or no?
sunny savita: Great.
sunny savita: Now, so first, let's about the vector, okay? I will take 5 more minutes to explain you about the vector. Yes, and then I will come to the embedding versus encoding. So, we're talking about the vector, guys.
sunny savita: Okay, let's understand about it.
sunny savita: You know about, this, north and south, right? North, south, east, and west.
sunny savita: So, if I'm going to be right over here north, right, this is going to be what? This is going to be? South.
sunny savita: This is what? This is East.
sunny savita: And this is what? This is? West.
sunny savita: Okay? So, let's say if someone is traveling, someone is traveling from… Here to here.
sunny savita: Okay, here to here.
sunny savita: Right?
sunny savita: Getting my point, guys. Let's say someone is traveling from here to here. Let's say he's traveling 10 kilometer.
sunny savita: So, how we are saying, how we are, basically showing the position of this particular person?
sunny savita: Can, you tell me?
sunny savita: So, how we are going to be showcase the, position. So, we can say it is going to be running
sunny savita: 10 kilometer in south, ease direction.
sunny savita: Is it clear to all of you? Yes or no? Right? So this is representing a magnitude.
sunny savita: This is representing what? This is representing magnitude, and this is representing direction.
sunny savita: And this is going to be what? This is going to be what? This is going to be my vector.
sunny savita: Okay? This is going to be vector. Now, can I represent this vector? Can I represent this vector? Can I represent this vector like this? Can I say like this?
sunny savita: N.
sunny savita: Can I, can I say like this, 10? SE?
sunny savita: Yes or no?
sunny savita: Tell me, yes or no. Is it fine to all of you? And this is what… so in physics, actually, in physics.
sunny savita: Or in mathematics, In physics, or in mathematics.
sunny savita: We always represent a vector like this.
sunny savita: Getting my point, guys? Now, let's say if I'm saying, if I'm going to be right like this, if someone is traveling from here to here, from this origin to over here, now let's say he's traveling 5 kilometer.
sunny savita: So, how I will represent the direction of this particular person? What I will say, guys, I will say 5.
sunny savita: East.
sunny savita: So this is what… this is the vector, actually. This is the direction, okay? This is the direction of the person. So this is what… this is the direction… sorry, this is the magnitude, plus
sunny savita: direction. Okay, magnitude.
sunny savita: Plus?
sunny savita: direction. So, is this thing clear to all of you? How to represent a vector, how to represent a vector… so how we represent a vector in physics and mathematics, and how to represent a vector? Is it clear to all of you with this particular example? Great. Okay? Now, let's take some other example.
sunny savita: Let's take some other example, and I will take 5 more minutes, guys, to explain you this entire concept. It's going to be very, very useful, right? So, over here, guys, what I'm doing, so let's say…
sunny savita: I have the Y axis, and I have X axis.
sunny savita: Now, let's say this is one point. My point is going to be what? My point is going to be P.
sunny savita: Okay? This one.
sunny savita: Now, over here, guys, the distance from here to here is 4.
sunny savita: Okay? And now the distance from here to here is 5.
sunny savita: Okay, so can I represent this P point like this?
sunny savita: 4 and 5.
sunny savita: Yes or no? Can I represent it like this? Yes or no?
sunny savita: Tell me, yes or no. So this is what? Tell me, guys, this is what? This is my P, this is my P, this is my P, and how I can represent this P? I can represent this P like this, X and Y. I can represent this P like this, 4 and 5.
sunny savita: I can represent this P like this, 4 and 5.
sunny savita: So, is this my vector, guys? Can you tell me, is this my vector? Is this my vector in 2D dimension? Is it clear or not to all of you? Yes or no? Is it getting clear to all of you? Tell me, yes?
sunny savita: Yes?
sunny savita: Great, guys. Great, very good, very good. So, it is a representation of the point.
sunny savita: It's up?
sunny savita: representation.
sunny savita: of the… Point.
sunny savita: Yes or no, guys? Tell me. Yes or no? Making sense or not, huh? Making sense or not? It is clear to all of you, right? Great. Now, this is the two-dimension vector. This is two-dimension vector. Now, let's say, over here, if I'm going to be… draw the three-dimension.
sunny savita: Okay, like this.
sunny savita: Like this.
sunny savita: So this is what, this is my X.
sunny savita: This is my why.
sunny savita: Okay? And this is what? This is my Z.
sunny savita: X, Y, and J.
sunny savita: If I'm showing any point over here, let's say this one, this point.
sunny savita: So, I can say it is lying over here, over here, and over here. So, something like this, I can represent my point over here with X, Y, and J. Okay, now this is going to be what? This is going to be a 3D vector.
sunny savita: Understood, guys? Yes or no? So, here I'm going to be represent my point. Here, I'm going to be represent my point in…
sunny savita: Here, I'm going to represent my point in…
sunny savita: 3D, in 3 direction. So how many values we have? How many values we have? We have 3 values. So if I'm going to be right like this, 1…
sunny savita: So it's a… 1D vector.
sunny savita: If I'm going to be right like this, 4…
sunny savita: I'm just writing a random value, so it's a 2D vector.
sunny savita: Okay? If I'm going to be right like this, 3…
sunny savita: Let's say if I'm going to be write 4…
sunny savita: 5, 7… so this is going to be… 40 vector.
sunny savita: Can I represent the 4D vector over here? No, I cannot visualize the 4-dimension, right? Now, over here, guys, let's say if I'm going to be right like this, 3, 4, 6, 7, up 2, and…
sunny savita: So it's going to be what? It's going to be ND vector.
sunny savita: Is it clear or not? Can you please tell me? Did you understand the dimension of the vector?
sunny savita: Okay? Now, let's understand one more concept over here. Okay? Let's understand one more concept over here. Now, guys, let's suppose, let's suppose, okay, what I want you to explain you, here I'm going to write one more thing, guys, right?
sunny savita: Let's say if I'm saying my OpenAI embedding model my OpenAI.
sunny savita: embedding model.
sunny savita: Guys, should I open my camera, or it is fine to all of you? I will open while I… when I will be explaining you the, the practical, no? At that time, I will just… I will open that, okay? Don't worry. So, here, guys, I return OpenAI embedding model. Now, the dimension of my model, basically.
sunny savita: The dimension of my model, let's say.
sunny savita: 3072.
sunny savita: Now, whatever sentence I'm giving to my model, it is generating 3072…
sunny savita: It is going to be generated 3072 number. So, can I, can I say, guys, inside my vector, I would be having 3072 number.
sunny savita: Yes or no?
sunny savita: Tell me.
sunny savita: Yes?
sunny savita: Is this thing clear or not? Did you understand the dimension of the vector?
sunny savita: Did you understand the dimension of the vector?
sunny savita: Okay? I will show you that in terms of practical. Now, let's understand a couple of more things, okay? Let me tell you, along with the example. Now, over here, what I'm doing, let's say here I'm going to be right.
sunny savita: Okay? I'm going to be explaining you one very important concept to all of you guys. Now, please focus for next 5 more minutes, right? So, let's say this is my X and Y plane. This is my X plane.
sunny savita: Now, here is what? Here is my Y plane. I'll come to this example again. Okay, don't worry. I'll come to this particular example. So, let's say, over here is what? Over here, I have a 00.
sunny savita: Now, here, basically, what I have, I have 4-0, okay? Now, here, what, basically what I have, I have 5-0, okay? 0, 5.
sunny savita: Right Now, guys, tell me, see, this is my point, P point.
sunny savita: Now, now this P point, how I can represent, I can represent like this, 4 and 5.
sunny savita: Now, how to calculate the magnitude of this particular point, this P point?
sunny savita: how to calculate the magnitude of this particular point, the P point. What is the magnitude, guys? The magnitude, basically, the distance from this O to this P, okay? I can represent this point, I can represent this point like this.
sunny savita: 4, 5.
sunny savita: Okay? I can represent this point like this. Means this is a representation of the point. This is a vector representation of the point.
sunny savita: Okay, this is a vector representation of the point.
sunny savita: But guys, if I wanted to calculate the magnitude of this point, how I will be calculating that? Using the Pythagoras theorem, I think you know, right? So what I will do over here, I will, apply the Pythagoras formula.
sunny savita: And the Pythagoras formula is going to be like this. Y2 minus Y1 square plus X2 minus X1 is square.
sunny savita: Okay? Now, this is going to be what? This is going to be my magnitude, okay? The distance of it. Now, over here, guys, what I will do, I will calculate the value of it, so 4 minus 0,
sunny savita: 4 minus 0, plus… 5 minus 0.
sunny savita: And here, the value, basically, which I will get, it's going to be
sunny savita: 41. So this 41 is what? This 41 is nothing, it is a distance from OP, right? This is the magnitude, actually. So how I can represent this vector? How I can represent this vector? I can represent this vector like this, 4 and 5.
sunny savita: But whenever I'm going to calculate the magnitude of this vector, the distance from the… the distance from the origin, so this is going to be a distance from the origin. And this is also called the Euclan distance. And we are going to be using this Euclidean distance in a similarity search. Have you heard about the similarity search, guys? Yes or no?
sunny savita: Tell me. Similarity search.
sunny savita: L-A-I-I-T-Y.
sunny savita: Similarity, such.
sunny savita: Okay? We'll discuss that in the upcoming session. You will get to know how, basically, we are going to be used that. So, whatever I have explained you with respect to this, with respect to what, with respect to this vector, I hope you got it. Yes or no? Just give me a quick confirmation so that I can explain you with one more example, okay?
sunny savita: Okay, great. Now what I'm doing, guys, I'm going to be explained one more thing.
sunny savita: Just focus, okay? This is going to be very much important. And here, your lots of the doubt is going to be clear. Now, let's suppose we have two dimensions, okay?
sunny savita: Let's suppose we have two dimensions.
sunny savita: This is my one dimension, this is my another dimension.
sunny savita: Now, over here, guys, let's say…
sunny savita: Here is what? Here is the… here I have to showcase the… here I have to showcase two things.
sunny savita: One is going to be… iPhone.
sunny savita: This is what, this is my word.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: The second is… the second is what? The second is the fruit.
sunny savita: Guys, can you tell me the similarity between this iPhone and Fruit?
sunny savita: Can you tell me the similarity between this iPhone and Fruit?
sunny savita: The similarity between this iPhone and Fruit is going to be…
sunny savita: 0, right? It's going to be zero.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: It's going to be what, guys? Tell me.
sunny savita: Fruit, basically, fruit means apple, right? So I can write over here, apple. Instead of fruit, let me write apple, okay?
sunny savita: So, apple, fruit.
sunny savita: And here, iPhone, Apple, iPhone. Now, tell me, guys, what is the similarity between these two ones? The similarity is going to be zero. iPhone is a different thing, fruit is a different thing, so, the similarity will be zero. Now, let's try to prove it.
sunny savita: Let's try to prove it.
sunny savita: With the concept of the vector.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: to the concept of the vector. Now, over here, guys, what I'm doing, let's say.
sunny savita: This, this iPhone. Sorry. Yeah, this, fruit apple, and this iPhone, basically, I'm going to represent with two attributes. Okay, so here I have two attributes. The first attribute, basically, it's going to be…
sunny savita: The first attribute, basically, is going to be what? It's going to be fruit, okay? Fruit. So let me remove the fruit from here, otherwise you will be confused.
sunny savita: Apple, fruit, okay? And here is what? Here is what? Here is the iPhone, right? So what I'm doing, guys, I'm going to be representing this thing with a 2 attribute. After this one, guys, I will give you the break. So I have a fruit, and I have a technology. T, E, C, H,
sunny savita: N-O-L-O-G-Y, okay? Now, guys, tell me, if I'm going to be representing this iPhone.
sunny savita: So, do we have any fruit essence over here inside the iPhone? No.
sunny savita: So here, I can represent it like this. This is my iPhone vector.
sunny savita: This is what? This is mine.
sunny savita: iPhone vector.
sunny savita: Because iPhone met technology over, right? Inside the iPhone, we don't have any sort of a fruit, right? Fruit essence. So I can represent the iPhone vector like this.
sunny savita: 0, and 1. Is it fine, guys? X is 0, Y is 1. If I want to represent the… if I want to represent the apple, okay, this apple fruit.
sunny savita: Now, tell me, guys, Apple matte technology huh?
sunny savita: Is there any technology inside the Apple?
sunny savita: No, right? In fruit apple, In fruit, apple.
sunny savita: We don't have any sort of a technology, right? So here, what will be the value? The value is going to be like this, 1 and 0.
sunny savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So, what I can say over here, I can simply say, if I wanted to represent the iPhone.
sunny savita: Then, guys… It's going to be 1 and 0.
sunny savita: If I wanted to represent the fruit apple, fruit apple.
sunny savita: This is going to be what? This is going to be.
sunny savita: 0 and 1, right? This is going to be what? This is going to be? 0 and 1.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: Now, guys, let's do one thing. Let's try to check with the similarity search.
sunny savita: Okay, let's try to check the similarities, sir. So, first thing, what I'm going to do, I'm going to perform the dot product.
sunny savita: dot product.
sunny savita: Now, how to perform the dot product, guys?
sunny savita: how to perform the dot product? So, dot product, basically, acts 1, Y1, then…
sunny savita: X to Y2, right? Now, over here, let me write…
sunny savita: X1 kit9, 1, and 0. Okay. Now, over here, what I can do, I can write…
sunny savita: Just a sec, let me write a clear-cut formula so that you will get to know about it.
sunny savita: Okay, guys, I think I am audible, correct? Can anyone confirm? I disconnected. I disconnected, I think, for a…
sunny savita: For a second, I think some internet glitch was there.
sunny savita: I disconnected, now I'm audible. Okay, great, perfect. So, are you with me? Are you with me? Yes or no? Are you with me? Yes? Okay, great. Let's try to complete this particular example. So, what I'm doing here, so here, basically, you can see what I have.
sunny savita: I have this dot product, okay? I'm going to perform the dot product. So what is the formula of the dot product? I can simply write over here.
sunny savita: X1, multiply X2, Plus…
sunny savita: Y1 multiply Y2. This is the formula of the dot product. Now, X1, okay, let's try to multiply that. So, here I have two vectors.
sunny savita: 1 and 0. The other vector is going to be 0 and 1.
sunny savita: Okay, if I'm going to be multiplied, see, this is my X, and this is my Y, so if I'm going to be multiplying that, so 1 multiplied 0,
sunny savita: plus… 0 multiplier.
sunny savita: One.
sunny savita: Now, tell me, guys, what will be the final value over here? The final value is going to be 0. So, mathematically, also, we are able to prove that.
sunny savita: Mathematically, also, we are able to prove that the similarity between this two-vector… similarity between this two vectors is going to be zero.
sunny savita: Tell me, guys, tell me, tell me, tell me.
sunny savita: Is there any similarity between the Apple iPhone or Apple Fruit? No, right? So, similarity is going to be zero, and here we have proved that. This is what? This is my feature.
sunny savita: This is what? This is my two feature, F1 feature.
sunny savita: an F, 2 feature.
sunny savita: Okay. You know about the cosine? You know about the cosine, guys? Tell me yes or no.
sunny savita: Can anyone tell me what is the value of the cost 9T?
sunny savita: What is the value of the course 9T?
sunny savita: The cos 90 value is going to be 0. Now, tell me, guys, what is the angle between these two vectors?
sunny savita: What is the angle between these two vectors?
sunny savita: The angle between these two vectors is going to be 0.
sunny savita: So what is the similarity between these two things? The similarity between these two things is going to be 0.
sunny savita: Understood, guys? Did you understand the complete concept of the vector? Yes or no? How to represent the data? How to represent the word in the form of vector? Is it clear to all of you? And did you understand this similarity concept or not?
sunny savita: Tell me yes.
sunny savita: Okay. We'll understand in a more detail, guys. We'll take, different, different example, and, we'll understand with many more examples, okay?
sunny savita: Got it? Great. So, how's the session? Are you liking the session, guys? Are you liking this example and all, everything? And,
sunny savita: if you have any sort of a doubt, you can ask me in a doubt session. So, as of now, we understood about the…
sunny savita: vector. Now, after this one, guys, after the break, we are going to be understanding about the encoding, and then we'll come to the embedding part, okay? Step by step, one by one, we are going to learn everything.
sunny savita: Sir, speed up. Ashish, do I need to speed this, speed up this entire thing? See, let it go like this only, will speed in some time, okay? After some classes, you will see the speed, okay?
sunny savita: Let me go in my pace.
sunny savita: Okay, great. So, should I give you the dinner break? Everyone wants the dinner break, right?
sunny savita: Okay, so I'm putting a timer for the 15 minute. After that, guys, we'll deep dive more into the encoding and the embedding, okay? We'll understand with a different example, and then we'll come to the practical part. Great. So thank you, guys, I'm putting, 15 minutes of timer. Thank you.
sunny savita: Guys, I will meet you after 15 minutes. You can take a break. Thank you, guys.
sunny savita: Okay, guys, everyone is there, can we start again? Please give me quick confirmation in the chat.
sunny savita: Or do you want 5 more minutes?
sunny savita: No, right? Okay, great.
sunny savita: Perfect.
sunny savita: So I hope, guys, you understood about the vector, what is a vector? Now let's, start with a further thing, okay? So now, basically, we'll focus on the encoding and embedding.
sunny savita: Let me write it over the fresh page. Okay, and let me give you a couple of more examples, so that your understanding, is going to be clarified.
sunny savita: Now, as I told you guys, encoding, is a way to convert a data into the vector, okay? So let me write over here.
sunny savita: and coding.
sunny savita: So, in that, what we are doing… We have our data.
sunny savita: Generally, we're talking about the text data over here. What kind of data, guys? Text data, okay? And this text data, we are going to be converting to what? Convert into the vector.
sunny savita: Now, we're talking about the vector, guys, this vector is nothing, it is a… it could be the n-dimension vector.
sunny savita: Okay, and dimension vector.
sunny savita: No.
sunny savita: Using the encoding technique, actually, whatever vector we are going to be create, right? And whatever number is there inside the vector, right? Those numbers, actually, it's not going to be preserved the meaning of the text.
sunny savita: Right? So this encoding technique, right, this encoding technique with that we are getting a vector, so this technique, actually, it is called the counter-waste technique.
sunny savita: Okay? Count-based technique. Now, inside that, we have 3 major techniques. The first technique is called the one-hot encoding.
sunny savita: So, we'll understand all these three techniques, okay?
sunny savita: One hot encoding. And I'll… and I'll give you the example of it, right?
sunny savita: We're not encoding.
sunny savita: The second is called… The second technique is called Bag of Words.
sunny savita: Okay? BOW means what? Bag of words.
sunny savita: And the third technique is called the TFIDL.
sunny savita: Right? TFYTF.
sunny savita: So, with this three techniques, what we can do, we can understand the concept of the encoding.
sunny savita: Right? Encoding. Now, we're talking about the embedding, guys. See, we have other technique also, so let me write a couple of more name over here. So, we are going to be right, right? So, we are going to be write this, I'm going to be write this BM25.
sunny savita: So this BM25, actually, it is drive on top of the TF IDF only.
sunny savita: And it is a ranking-based method.
sunny savita: It is what? It is a…
sunny savita: ranking-based method, and here, see, we'll see this TF, we'll see this BM25, but we'll see in terms of practical only. We'll see how we can utilize that, okay? Now, apart from that, we have one more technique, which is not being used nowadays. Okay, glove vector is there.
sunny savita: Okay, this is also not being used nowadays. So again, this is… we are not going to discuss that, right? So here, we'll, only focus over the TF-IDF.
sunny savita: So, we'll, only, majorly focus over the TF IDF. We are not going to be focused on this glove vector. And this BM25, basically, I will show you in terms of practical for this ranking kind of thing, okay? How we can utilize that.
sunny savita: But to understand the encoding thing, this three method is enough. One-word encoding, bag of vector, bag of words, and the TF IDF.
sunny savita: Getting my point, guys? So, glove vector in BM25 is not, required, right? Now, if we're talking about the embedding.
sunny savita: Okay? So, embedding also, we are going to create a vector.
sunny savita: In embedding also, we are going to create a vector.
sunny savita: Okay? So here also, we have our data.
sunny savita: Now here, guys, we're talking about the data, so again, we are going to be talking about text.
sunny savita: Now, along with the text, we are going to be convert images also into the embedding.
sunny savita: Nowadays, we have those kind of model. We can convert video also into the embedding. Even we can convert audio also into the embedding.
sunny savita: Okay? So, nowadays we have those kind of model where we can convert the different other type of data into the embedding. Okay, if I'm saying embedding, so…
sunny savita: I'm talking about the vectors, right? Embedding or vector, both are same, right? In NLP and AI, actually, we say embedding, and in mathematics, basically, we say the vectors, okay? Now, over here, whatever vectors we are going to create.
sunny savita: the vector, basically, which is going to be keep the number, right? This number, actually, is going to be a meaningful number.
sunny savita: Okay, this number, actually, it's going to be a meaningful number. Means, we are going to be preserved the context of the data.
sunny savita: We are going to preserve the context of the data.
sunny savita: Now, this embedding, actually, it is not a count-based method.
sunny savita: This embedding, actually, it is not a count-based method.
sunny savita: Instead of that, what we use, we use the neural networks, We use neural networks.
sunny savita: or in a state-of-heart model, nowadays, basically, we use what? Transformer-based model.
sunny savita: Nowadays, whatever embedding model you can see.
sunny savita: Whatever embedding models are there in the market, all the embedding model, all the embedding model are using this transformer.
sunny savita: what it is using? It is using the transformer. Earlier, basically, we were having this neural network. So, to understand this embedding, basically, what we can do, we can start from the word embedding, okay? And then, basically, we can go to the advanced concept of it. Now, I would like to tell you a couple of more things, guys.
sunny savita: Right? I would like to couple more… I would, basically highlight a couple of more things over here. So just focus. Just focus on one table, which I'm going to be share over here, and I think, with that, one concept is going to be clear.
sunny savita: Can you see this thing? Is it visible to all of you?
sunny savita: Couple of points… a couple of points I have written over here. If it is… if it is visible to all of you, please let me know.
sunny savita: So, whatever, see, whatever embedding technique, you are seeing nowadays, okay? So those, embedding techniques basically are using the transformer. And those techniques actually is called the…
sunny savita: State of art technique. SOTA technique, okay? State of art technique, okay? State of art, which is called the SOTA. SOTA is a short form. State of art means latest technique, okay?
sunny savita: Whatever latest technique you can see, it is using the transformer. Now, over here, guys, just focus on this term. This is going to be very much important, while you are going to be understanding the data, mainly the text data.
sunny savita: So, character means what? Character means the small unit, if I'm writing over here. A…
sunny savita: B, C, D, something like that, right? So, this is going to be a character. Now, token is what? Token is nothing, it's a model input unit. So, token and words, right?
sunny savita: It is what? It is a collection of character.
sunny savita: And if we have multiple tokens, okay, so, sorry, if we have multiple words, so from those particular words, we can create the tokens, right? So don't be confused over here. What we can do, we can keep this token or word at the same one, okay? So over here, what I can do, I can keep this word as a token.
sunny savita: Right? This word is going to be what? Word is going to be a token only, right? So character is what? Character is a fundamental unit of the data, of the text. Specifically, we are talking about the text over here.
sunny savita: Getting my point, guys? So, specifically, we are talking about the text, okay? So, character is what? Character, basically, it's going to be A, B,
sunny savita: C, D, something like that, right? Up to Z.
sunny savita: Now, if we are going to combine the characters, so we are going to be formed the word.
sunny savita: You can say what, or it's going to be a token.
sunny savita: Getting my point? Now, if you are going to be con… if you are going to combine the token, the collection of the token, word or token, it's called the sentences, okay? Let's say if I'm writing over here, I love India.
sunny savita: So this is what? This is a collection of what? This is a collection of tokens.
sunny savita: Okay? So here is what? Here is sentence. Now, if you are going to be combining the multiple sentence, so this is called the paragraph.
sunny savita: Right? If we are going to be combining the multiple paragraphs, so it is called the document. And if we are going to combine the complete document, say, right? So it is called the corpus.
sunny savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Tell me. Yes or no? Is it getting clear to all of you? These terms and terminology is clear to all of you. I just wanted to know inside the chat. Yes? Okay. Now, if we're talking about the embedding model, let me write over here. If we're talking about the embedding model.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: this embedding model. So the early-stage embedding model
sunny savita: Early stage embedding model, the model, basically, which we are using in 20.
sunny savita: 18, 20, 19, 2020, right?
sunny savita: So, they were able to convert Word into the embedding.
sunny savita: Word into the embedding.
sunny savita: And we were having a very famous model over here. The model name was the… can anyone tell me what was the model name? The model name was the World 2 Back.
sunny savita: Now, the second model, basically, we are having the fast text.
sunny savita: So this TO model, using this TO model, what we were doing, we were converting Word into the embedding. Okay, we were converting Word into the embedding.
sunny savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So we were having this to method. We were having this TO method. The first method, basically, word to back, and the second method was the fast text.
sunny savita: And this method, basically, it was based on the neural network.
sunny savita: neural network.
sunny savita: Is it getting clear to all of you? Nowadays, whatever model we have, nowadays, whatever model we have, the SOTA model, state-of-art model, the latest model, so those models, actually, it's based on the transformer.
sunny savita: And it is able to convert every sort of a data into the embedding.
sunny savita: So whether you're providing Word to those models.
sunny savita: It's able to convert into the embedding.
sunny savita: Whether you're going to provide the
sunny savita: sentence to that model, it's going to be converted into the embedding. Whether you're going to be provide a document to that model, it's going to be converted to the embedding, or you can provide a complete corpus, complete book to that model. It's going to be converted into the embedding.
sunny savita: Making sense or not, guys? So the early-stage model, which was dependent on the neural network, it was only able to convert word into the embedding.
sunny savita: But nowadays, whatever model we have, the SOTA model, which is based on the transformer.
sunny savita: Now, those particular model is able to convert any kind of data, any kind of data, into the embedding. Not only this text data, guys, even we can convert image data into the embedding.
sunny savita: Even we can convert
sunny savita: Audio data into the embedding, even if we have any sort of a video, so that video also, we can convert into the embedding.
sunny savita: Is it getting clear to all of you? Tell me yes or no. So this particular slide is clear. If it is clear, you can give me quick thumbs up, guys. Yes or no?
sunny savita: Tell me yes or no. Sotaka full form. State of art? Is state of art? Is state of art means the latest one, okay?
sunny savita: Latest, latest one. The latest model.
sunny savita: Understood, guys? Yes or no? Great. Now, what we are doing, guys, so here, we are going to be understand the meaning of the embedding. So, here I written one complete definition, and with that particular definition, we can understand the meaning of the
sunny savita: Basically embedding. See, here is a definition. Now, just read it out. Just read it out. Here, I capped some example also. So, if someone is going to ask you, what is an embedding? So, embedding isn't a thing, it is a mathematical representation of the data, okay? Just read out this first definition, right?
sunny savita: Embedding is a way to convert text, image, audio, video into the meaningful numbers. Embedding is a dense, high-dimension numerical vector that represents the semantic meaning of the data.
sunny savita: Okay? Now, over here, guys, what is the meaning of the dense? Dense means non-sparse, means we don't… we will not be having more zeros inside the embedding.
sunny savita: High dimensional means the range is going to be from 380, 300 to 700 to 2000 to 1500 to 2000 to 3000, okay? Now, vector means what? Vector is nothing, it is a mathematical representation of the data.
sunny savita: So is this definition of… is this definition clear or not? The embedding definition is clear.
sunny savita: Please tell me in the chat if it is clear. Now, let's understand with one example, okay? So, what I'm going to do, I'm going to be explaining you all this thing with one example. Now, over here, guys, you can see what I have written.
sunny savita: what I have written, guys. Now, just focus for 2 more minutes, okay? After that, guys, I will come to the practical, and then we'll look into a couple of more things.
sunny savita: So, convert data into the numerical vector that preserved meaning. I think you understood what is this? It's an embedding. If I'm going to be generate embedding of this word, king, and embedding of this queue.
sunny savita: queen, right? So the distance between… the distance between this embedding, or the angle between this particular embedding is going to be less
sunny savita: It is correct or not, guys. Tell me, yes or no.
sunny savita: Right? So, whether we are going to be generate a word embedding, or whether we are going to be generator embedding from the transformer-based model, in both cases, this is going to be applicable. But if we are going to be generator embedding of the king and embedding of banana, in that case, the angle between
sunny savita: this two vectors is going to be huge, the distance between these two vectors is going to be huge. How many ways we have to check out the similarity between the vector? Can anyone tell me how many ways we have to check out the similarity? We have three ways. The first is going to be dot product.
sunny savita: First one is going to be a dot product. The second one is going to be what?
sunny savita: The second one, basically, is going to be cosine similarity, okay? Cosine similarity. The third, basically, is going to be what? The third, basically.
sunny savita: Third, basically, is going to be Euclan distance. ED means what? Euclidean distance. So these are the way to check out the similarity. If we're talking about the classical word embedding, so we have this two models, word-to-back, fast text. This is based on the neural network.
sunny savita: Okay? We are having some limitation of this particular model. They create embedding at the word level only, means we cannot pass any sentences, any different type of data, any document to this particular model.
sunny savita: the product of the… they produce the aesthetic embedding, means the fixed vector, and they do not understand the context, okay? I will talk about it, what it is, what it is trying to say.
sunny savita: Now guys, tell me, is this slide is clear to all of you.
sunny savita: Did you understand the definition of the meaning, and did you understand, the different, different, terms and terminology, and did you understand the classical way of the embedding and the state-of-art embedding? Tell me yes or no, so that I can give you more example, and you can understand this embedding in a better way. Okay? Now, what I'm doing, guys, see.
sunny savita: Here, I'm giving you one more example. With that, maybe, your understanding is going to be very, very clear.
sunny savita: Okay? Your understanding is going to be very, very clear. Now, just focus on this particular example. This example is very much important. Just a second, let me paste it, from the notepad itself, okay? Now, just focus over here, see this one.
sunny savita: Now, here, inside this particular example, what I did, I capped two sentences, okay? So, just a second, guys.
sunny savita: I hope it is fine. Yeah. So, I kept two sentences, right? Just focus on these two sentences. The first sentence is saying.
sunny savita: I set on riverbank. Okay, this is my first sentence, and here I'm saying, I deposit money in the bank, okay? This is my first one, this is my second one. Now, over here, we have one word, this is going to be bank. Now, tell me, guys.
sunny savita: We were talking about the bank.
sunny savita: So, in this sentence, and in this sentence.
sunny savita: The meaning is going to be different, yes or no?
sunny savita: The meaning is going to be different over here, yes or no. So, if we're talking about the method, like, word to back.
sunny savita: Okay. Now there, we are going to be generate the embedding of this bank.
sunny savita: Okay? In both sentences, in the first one, in the second one, it's going to be generated the aesthetic embedding. The embedding is going to be same. Even though the context is different. Can anyone tell me, guys, are you getting this particular example?
sunny savita: Right? The context of the word… the context of this particular word is going to be different in both cases. Yes or no? Tell me, guys. The context of this particular word, this bank, and this bank is going to be different
sunny savita: In both examples, okay? Now, if we're talking about the classical method.
sunny savita: We're talking about the classical method, like word embedding and all, so it's going to be generated the aesthetic embedding. Means, in this case, and in this case, the embedding is going to be same over here.
sunny savita: Okay, but if we're talking about the SOTA method, the transformer-based method, the latest method, like Jiminy embedding, OpenAI embedding, if we're talking about the sentence transformer-based embedding, I'll come to this model, right? So, in that case, the embedding of those… the embedding of both words is going to be different.
sunny savita: Because it understands the context. It understands the context of the sentences. Making sense to all of you? Now, can I summarize all the things? Can I summarize all the things? So here, guys, if we're talking about the embedding.
sunny savita: So what is embedding? Tell me, guys, embedding is nothing. It is a way of convert a data, okay, it is a way of convert our data. If I'm saying data guy, so data could be tags.
sunny savita: Data could be image, data could be video, data could be audio.
sunny savita: It's going to be convert the data into the meaningful vector.
sunny savita: Okay, meaningful vector. Now, we are having two ways of this embedding. First is a classical way.
sunny savita: Classical way. Classical way, basically, it was based on the neural network.
sunny savita: Okay? There, basically, we have this wordToBack method.
sunny savita: Using the word-to-back method, we can only convert words into the embedding. First, we have to convert our data into the words, into the vocabulary, then only we can generate the embedding out of it. But guys, this embedding is going to be a static embedding.
sunny savita: means this word to back, basically, it's not going to be capture the context of the sentence. In every situation, it is going to be generate the similar kind of embedding of the words.
sunny savita: But if we're talking about the latest model, SOTA model, state-of-art model, which is going to be based on the transformer architecture, okay, which is going to be based on the transformer architecture, like Jimmy embedding, OpenAI embedding, right?
sunny savita: So this model, basically, is going to be capture the dynamic embedding.
sunny savita: Okay, this model basically is going to be generate the dynamic embedding. So whatever embedding we are going to be generate using this one, so I can write a couple of name over here. The first model is going to be BERT model, the second model is going to be MPNet model, BGE model, okay, OpenAI model, OpenAI-based model, or Jiminy-based model, CloudA model.
sunny savita: Right? So these models, basically, whatever embedding is going to be generated, it's going to be a dynamic embedding.
sunny savita: dynamic embedding.
sunny savita: Right? Here, it's going to be preserved the context of the sentences on a dynamic basis, okay?
sunny savita: I hope, guys, is this thing clear or not? Please tell me if the meaning of this slide is clear, so that I can go ahead with a different example. Now, guys, tell me, are you enjoying learning along with me? If you're learning, if you're enjoying, then please let me know.
sunny savita: I'll come to that BGA and all, okay? Everything, guys, I'll discuss.
sunny savita: So, first of all, tell me, is it going to be clear? Are you enjoying the learning? Yes.
sunny savita: Yes or no?
sunny savita: Okay, great. Now, let me tell you one more thing. So, here, guys, I capped one differences, and these differences is going to be very, very, very important. Okay, so just keep these differences with you. Now, the difference, basically, is what? The difference, basically.
sunny savita: Let me highlight over here. The differences between what? The differences between this?
sunny savita: Encoding and embedding. Okay, so let's understand the differences between the encoding and the
sunny savita: embedding. So I kept it over here. So what this encoding is doing, it's going to be convert the data into the numbers. Okay, and what this embedding is doing, so it is also going to be convert the data into the numbers.
sunny savita: But guys, this is going to be represent… this is going to be a meaningful, actually, right? We're talking about the nature, nature of this encoding, so it is going to be sparse, okay? It's going to be sparse.
sunny savita: Now, we're talking about the nature of the embedding, so it's going to be a dense. It is based on the neural network or transformer.
sunny savita: Now, we're talking about… we're talking about the semantic meaning, guys. So, encoding, actually, is not going to be preserved, the semantic meaning, okay?
sunny savita: It's not going to be preserved the semantic meaning. Just focus over here, guys, just focus over these differences, so that you will get everything. And I will provide you this note so that you can revise everything, okay?
sunny savita: So here, it's not going to be preserved the meaning. Now, if we're talking about the embedding, guys, now over here, you can see clearly each and everything now. So it's going to be… Sorry.
sunny savita: Here you can see the embedding. So, semantic meaning it's not going to be preserved. Embedding, yes, it's going to be preserved. Context server, so encoding is not a context of here, and embedding, basically, it's a context surveyor. Okay, this is basically… encoding is what? Encoding is nothing, it's a…
sunny savita: frequency basis. It's a… frequency basis, or counting basis. Now, this is basically, it's a…
sunny savita: network basis, okay? This, neural network and the transformer basis.
sunny savita: Now, again, we have one more differences. So, in the one more differences, basically, we can, understand about what? We can understand about the sentence embedding and the word embedding, means this particular model, this particular classical method and the SOTA method, okay? So, I will give you this particular differences also.
sunny savita: Now, we're talking about the model, guys, right?
sunny savita: So, these all are the model. Let me give you the, detail of the model, okay? See, I hope it is visible to all of you. This is all the model. So, this is the closed source model, right? This is the closed source model from the OpenAI, from the Google, from the Anthropic, from the Cohere, and from the AWS. Now, if you want to know about the
sunny savita: open source model, so yes, we have a list of the open source model also. I can, provide you the list of the open source model also. And even I will show you guys. Just a second.
sunny savita: Let me take that open source model also, okay?
sunny savita: So, over here, this is the…
sunny savita: open source model. Okay, I capped this model and all the list of the model, basically, with me, and I will show you the leaderboard also, okay? Just a second, I'm not able to paste.
sunny savita: Okay. Don't worry, guys, let me do one thing, let me show you the leaderboard directly.
sunny savita: or what I can do, how I can show you that.
sunny savita: Just a second… I can save that image. Okay, wait.
sunny savita: Actually, I captured one screenshot for all of you.
sunny savita: Where we have a list of the models, different, different lists, actually.
sunny savita: We have a different, type of model.
sunny savita: Just a second, guys, I'm taking a snap of it, okay?
sunny savita: Insert image, and here is the screenshot.
sunny savita: Yeah, can you see this one, guys? So this is the open source model.
sunny savita: Text model, image model, audio model, and the video model. It's a list of the SOTA model, state-of-art model.
sunny savita: Okay?
sunny savita: I hope it is visible.
sunny savita: So tell me, guys, till here everything is perfect, everything is fine. I'll provide you this entire note so you can go through with it.
sunny savita: Okay? You can go through with it. I think it is blurred a little bit, because I took a screenshot. Multimodal means which can process the different type of modality, the different other type of modality. Now, what is the conclusion from here? The conclusion is going to be very, very simple, guys.
sunny savita: The conclusion is, we have to understand a couple of things, right? We have to understand couple of methods over here. Whatever method we need to understand? Let me highlight, and step by step, one by one, we'll try to discuss that, okay? Now, before that, guys, what I will do, see, I will show you the practical also, each and everything in terms of practical.
sunny savita: And,
sunny savita: Each and every part, basically, I kept as a practical as well, whether it's an encoding method or it's an embedding method. Okay, so just look into this particular model. This is a state-of-art embedding model. Now, a couple of more things, guys.
sunny savita: So, the next thing is going to be what? The next thing is going to be semantic search, similarity search. I think I already discussed about the semantic search and similarity search. Let me give you that, that note also, so I prepare one, very, like, refined notes along with the example. Let's understand along with the example, okay?
sunny savita: So here, what I'm going to do, I'm going to be keep it over here. And guys, after that, I will come to the practical, okay? Now, what other thing I need to show you in terms of, in terms of mathematics? So, I will drive a couple of examples in terms of mathematics.
sunny savita: So here, first, I will show you the, method of the encoding, okay, which is going to be one-auto encoding. We'll discuss that. I will show you how to drive it mathematically. The second, I will show you this bag of words, okay?
sunny savita: Bag of words. And third, I will show you this TF idea.
sunny savita: Okay? TF IDF. So, I will drive all this thing mathematically, okay? It will take hardly, I would say, half an hour. Maybe I can show you in the next class.
sunny savita: Then, the second, the fourth is going to be what? The fourth one is going to be this one. Word2Pag.
sunny savita: So you will understand how the embedding was, being created, okay, using the neural network. Classical method. So, this was a classical method, right?
sunny savita: Classical method. Then, guys, I will come to the SOTA method.
sunny savita: Okay, SOTA method. So what I will do, I will discuss about the transformer architecture, and using the transformer architecture, how the embedding is being dried, okay? How the embedding is being dried. So this particular thing, I will explain you mathematically.
sunny savita: So, we'll understand.
sunny savita: All this thing.
sunny savita: Mathematically, okay? Over the Blackboard itself, I will show you. Is it making sense to all of you? Tell me, guys, is it clear, all the topics and points?
sunny savita: Because, as of now, I'm just going to be building the foundation of the embedding, okay? So that you can understand each and every part about it, and later on, basically, we can, deep dive into the methods, okay? Now, one more thing, guys. So, many people are asking to me about the, semantic search. So, here I written a definition of it. Let's try to read it out.
sunny savita: And here, basically, I kept the,
sunny savita: Example also, okay? So, just give me a moment.
sunny savita: Guys, give me 2 minutes of break, let me, basically bring some water, okay? Then after, that we'll start with the semantic search. And not only the semantic search, we have… I have one more thing for all of you.
sunny savita: Basically, I'm going to be discuss about the… I'm going to discuss the differences between this, keyword search as well as the semantic search, okay? Because this is very much important.
sunny savita: So, what I have done, guys, I kept a couple of examples with respect to that also. Semantic search versus keyword search, okay? So, let me do one thing, let me keep that specific example also over here.
sunny savita: So, see guys, what I have, I have keyword search, as well as I have semantic search, okay? So, we are going to discuss all this thing in a detail.
sunny savita: And let me check if we have a couple of more things, so that also I will be discussing.
sunny savita: After that, guys, I will show you, models for the embedding, at whatever places you can find out that. And one more thing I have, that's going to be an application of the embedding, okay? So this is also very much important. Let me keep that specific notes.
sunny savita: So, within, next 15 minutes, I'm going to discuss all this thing, then I will come to some practical, and in the next class, basically, I will show you the derivation of all this thing.
sunny savita: whatever topic name I have written, 1OT encoding, bag of words, TF IDF, World2Bag, SOTA, and transformer, and then we are going to be wrap up this embedding chapter, and we'll move to the next chapter, which is going to be a transformer.
sunny savita: Got it, guys? Yes or no?
sunny savita: Tell me, and I will share all these theoretical notes with all of you, so that you can go through with it.
sunny savita: Got it? Great. So guys, just give me 2 minutes of break, quick water break, and after that, again, we'll start with this example. Thank you.
sunny savita: Okay, guys, so can we resume the session? I hope everyone is there, right?
sunny savita: Great.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: So, let's understand about the semantic search, which is also called the similarity search, okay? So, what I can do, guys, I can explain you over here, and then we can go with the example.
sunny savita: So, as we, as we know, whenever we have a data, right, so that, particular data, we are going to be convert into the embedding, okay?
sunny savita: So that particular data, we are going to be converted into the embedding. If I'm saying embedding, or if I'm saying vector, okay? Both is fine.
sunny savita: vector embedding.
sunny savita: Now, let's say we have a vector.
sunny savita: Right?
sunny savita: This is my vector.
sunny savita: Okay, I have some values over here.
sunny savita: Now, if I have to check.
sunny savita: what other similar vector I have.
sunny savita: Right? What other… what other… Similar vector.
sunny savita: Similar vector.
sunny savita: I have.
sunny savita: Right?
sunny savita: So, can I check that? Yes, definitely, I can check that. Okay, so we have certain method for that, as I told you, we have dot product.
sunny savita: We have dot product, we have Euclidean distance, We have cosine similarity.
sunny savita: So, using this particular method, what we can do, we can check what all other… what are the other vector which is similar to this particular vector, to this particular data.
sunny savita: That is nothing, that is called the… semantic?
sunny savita: Search.
sunny savita: Semantic search means what?
sunny savita: Based on the context of this vector.
sunny savita: Okay, based on the context of this vector.
sunny savita: Okay, we are going to be check the other similar vector, right? Other similar vector. So, we have this vector, we are going to be search the other similar vector, let's say, we have this vector.
sunny savita: Let me define with a different color. Let's say we have this vector, okay, this vector… This vector, right?
sunny savita: This is what… let's say this is my D1, data 1. And this is going to be what? This is going to be my D2.
sunny savita: D2, D3, D4. This is representing to some other data.
sunny savita: Right? This is representing to some other data.
sunny savita: Okay? This is representing to some other data.
sunny savita: Got it, guys? So what we are doing, based on this particular method.
sunny savita: this dot product, or this Euglion distance, or this cosine similarity, we are checking.
sunny savita: what other similar vector we have. Okay, so this is called the semantic search, or this is also called the similarity search.
sunny savita: Similarities such.
sunny savita: Right?
sunny savita: Similarity search. So, based on the context, we are going to find out the similar vector, so that's why it's called the semantic search, or the similarity search. Is this thing clear or not? Is this definition is clear to all of you? Please tell me in the chat, yes or no?
sunny savita: Tell me yes, okay? Let's understand with the example.
sunny savita: So what is a similarity search? What is a semantic search? Semantic search means meaning-based, intelligent search using embedding, okay? Semantic search means searching based on meaning, not just the exact word.
sunny savita: Getting my point? So this vector, actually, it's going to be preserved, the meaning of the data.
sunny savita: How it's going to be preserved the meaning of the data? Because we are using the transformer kind of model, and this transformer kind of model is capable to preserve the meaning of the data. So this particular vector, actually, is going to be preserved the
sunny savita: meaning of the data, right? So, what we are doing is, based on the meaning of this vector, okay, based on this particular vector, we are going to search the other similar vector, right? Now, semantic search is usually performed using this particular technique, cosine similarity, dot product, and Euclidean distance.
sunny savita: So, here I capped one example. Let's try to focus on this particular example. Maybe with that, your understanding will be more clear. So, this is the example, guys. Just focus over here. So, what I have written over here, see.
sunny savita: Eating fiber reduce the heart risk, okay? This is my first sentence. Is it correct, guys? Tell me yes or no, this particular sentence. Now, here I have written, eating fruit and vegetable lower cardiovascular disease.
sunny savita: Tell me, guys, is it correct or not? This one. This particular sentence, right? So, here I have sentence 1.
sunny savita: Or, end the sentence 2. Now, both sentences having a same meaning.
sunny savita: Tell me, guys.
sunny savita: both sentences having the same meaning, right? So, even though the words are different, embedding plays them close in a vector space. Means the similarity between these two vectors is going to be very huge.
sunny savita: Okay? It is a more similar one. It is more similar to each other. So, this is a similar vector.
sunny savita: If I'm going to be generate a vector out of this particular sentence, so those vectors are going to be a similar vector.
sunny savita: Is it clear, guys? Tell me yes or no.
sunny savita: Yes?
sunny savita: Yes, tell me yes or no. Is it getting clear? Now, here, you can see what I return, see. That's why semantic search written relevant return, even though words are changing.
sunny savita: So, here I have written, eating fiber reduce our heart risk. Now, here, buying a new car improves driving comfort. Now, tell me.
sunny savita: It is going to be a similar, or it's going to be a dissimilar. Tell me, guys.
sunny savita: It is a similar sentence? No. This is not a similar sentence. This is a dissimilar sentence.
sunny savita: Okay? This is a dissimilar sentence. Making sense to all of you, yes or no?
sunny savita: Tell me yes.
sunny savita: So…
sunny savita: What is the meaning of the… what is the meaning of the semantic search, similarity search? Semantic search means, let's say we are a… if we have a vector, we are going to be generate a vector out of this particular sentence, out of this particular sentence, okay? And if we are going to be generate a vector out of this particular sentence.
sunny savita: Right? So mathematically, this is going to be close.
sunny savita: the similarity… sorry, mathematically, this is going to be close, or it's not going to be close, okay? We can check that… we can check that thing, right? So here, we can check the similarity or dissimilarity between the vector, right? We can check the
sunny savita: the similarity score. We can check the semantic meaning of the data. Based on the semantic meaning of this particular vector, we can search the other vector.
sunny savita: Getting my point? So these words are, like, related to each other. Semantic search, similarity search, it is same only, right? So the ultimate meaning of it, to check out the similar type of data.
sunny savita: Okay? If those data is similar, then showcase the higher similarity. If those vectors, those data is not similar, then showcase the dissimilarity. That's it, guys.
sunny savita: I hope you understood it. Tell me yes or no.
sunny savita: I've written a complete example, and I think with that, you can easily understand. Now, let me tell you one more thing over here. So, I have one more example, and I think this is also going to be very, very useful, so let's understand that one.
sunny savita: Keyword search and the semantic search, okay? So, what is the meaning of it? Keyword search and the semantic search. So, keyword search means, based on the keyword, actually, we are going to be search, okay? Let's understand that. So, here is what, here is, here I am having one sentence, okay?
sunny savita: So, keyword versus semantic.
sunny savita: keyword search… sorry, keyword search matches word, okay? And semantic search matches meaning, actually, meaning of the vector, right? So how keyword search works, let's understand that. So, if you are going to be search, how to reduce hard risk. So, this is my sentence, guys.
sunny savita: Right? Now, here, system will mainly look for the sentence, right, which is containing word reduce heart risk, right? If a sentence is instead containing this particular one, this particular word, way to lower cardiovascular disease chances, see, even though this sentence
sunny savita: And this sentence… Semantically same, right?
sunny savita: It is same… it is same sentence, right?
sunny savita: It is similar sentence.
sunny savita: It is?
sunny savita: Similar sentence. Even though the word is different, It is a similar sentence.
sunny savita: Right? The meaning of it… The meaning between these particular centers are the same.
sunny savita: The meaning of this particular sentence is going to be the same. Which one?
sunny savita: this one, and this one. But guys, we are going to be checked with this traditional keyword now. If we are going to be matched with this traditional keyword search now.
sunny savita: So, reduce is not equal to lower, heart risk is not equal to cardiovascular disease. So, even though the meaning is same, it's going to be placed in a different vector space. It's going to be showcased, this two vectors is different.
sunny savita: Getting my point. So, keyword search always works with a keyword, even though the meaning is same.
sunny savita: Understood, guys, tell me, is it clear or not?
sunny savita: But guys, if we're talking about… see, here you can see. One more example.
sunny savita: Sentence 1, how to lose weight fast.
sunny savita: Sentence 2, quick fat loss strategy. Now, keyword search.
sunny savita: big match.
sunny savita: Semantic search is a strong match.
sunny savita: Making sense? Yes or no?
sunny savita: Tell me yes or no.
sunny savita: Guys, is it making sense, this particular example?
sunny savita: So, keyword search always works with the
sunny savita: Keyword way. Always work with a keyword, okay?
sunny savita: And semantic search…
sunny savita: Semantic search always works with a semantic meaning, context, or the meaning of the vector, which we are going to be captured using this transformer-based model.
sunny savita: Okay, the vector we are going to be generate, actually, those vectors are going to be meaningful vector.
sunny savita: Clear or not? Tell me. Yes or no.
sunny savita: Example clear.
sunny savita: If it is not clear, you can, let me… you can check in the doubt session, okay? I will again explain you. If someone having issue with the example, or maybe someone, not able to understand, then don't worry, guys, you can ask me in a doubt session, okay?
sunny savita: Now, guys, whatever… what is the application of the embedding, right? So, this is the application of the embedding, means we can do the semantic search, okay? Most fundamental application of the embedding. What we can do, we can search based on the meaning, actually, right?
sunny savita: So instead of the keyword, we can check the similarity, we can check the meaning between the vector. The second is going to be Google-like search engine. It is also working on the semantic search, the similarity search.
sunny savita: Google image search, again, it is an application. Pinterest, right? So, whenever you search something over the Pinterest, you are searching any sort of a keyword or something, right? So, based on that keyword, what it is doing, it is creating an embedding of that, and in a backend, that similarity search is going on, and then you are getting the
sunny savita: same kind of images, okay? So this is, again, one of the examples. Netflix, similar, to get a similar movie. Amazon, to get a similar product. Spotify, to get a similar kind of song, right?
sunny savita: These all are the example of the embedding. These all the things we can achieve using the embedding.
sunny savita: Means, we have our data, Out of this data, basically, we can create the numerical vector.
sunny savita: numerical vector.
sunny savita: Okay, numerical vector. And what we can do, we can find out the similarity between this particular vector.
sunny savita: We can find out the similarity between these particular vector, okay?
sunny savita: Now, the biggest example means the biggest application of it
sunny savita: RAG, Retrieval argument generation. The complete RAG system, actually, it is based on this retrieval… this similarity search only.
sunny savita: In the… inside the reg, actually, we have this retrieval process, okay? Retrieval process. This retrieval process completely depend on the semantic search.
sunny savita: semantic search.
sunny savita: So this is the biggest example, guys. This is the biggest example.
sunny savita: Understood, guys? Yes or no? Tell me. So, these all are the example, these all are the application of the embedding, and embedding plays a very important role. So, let me summarize all the thing, guys, whatever thing we have learned so far. So, we understood about the encoding.
sunny savita: Did you understand about the encoding definition? Just say yes or no.
sunny savita: Now, we have to drive this three methods of the encoding.
sunny savita: The first is going to be 1OT encoding.
sunny savita: The second is going to be Bag of Words.
sunny savita: Okay?
sunny savita: bag of words, and third is going to be TFI, TF, okay? So in the next session, guys, what I'm going to do, I'm going to show you the mathematical derivation of it. It will hardly take
sunny savita: I think, 30 minutes, okay? 30 minutes.
sunny savita: Then, guys, we'll understand about the embedding. This is very much important.
sunny savita: This is very much important, okay?
sunny savita: Important one. Important one.
sunny savita: Now, here we have a classical method.
sunny savita: In the classical method, We can only convert Word into the embedding.
sunny savita: Using what? Using World 2 Bank.
sunny savita: Okay? Using this word to buy. So again, we'll see the mathematical
sunny savita: intuition of it, how we can do it, okay? For that, guys, neural network knowledge will be required.
sunny savita: neural network knowledge will be required for this particular thing. The second is going to be Soda.
sunny savita: Okay, SOTA, S-O-T-A, let me write over here.
sunny savita: Sota, okay?
sunny savita: SOTA, actually, using the SOTA, we can convert Word into the embedding, we can convert any sort of a text, we can convert any sort of images, video, and audio.
sunny savita: Okay? If I'm saying text, guys, so any sort of a text, whether it's a sentence, whether it's a complete document, whether it's a complete book.
sunny savita: Okay, anything we can convert. Now, for that, guys, we'll have to understand the transformer architecture. So, the next chapter, inside the next module, we are going to discuss the transformer architecture.
sunny savita: Now, apart from that, guys, we understood couple of more things, let me highlight those as well. So, we understood about the vectors. Vector is clear to all of you, tell me yes or no.
sunny savita: Vector definition is clear.
sunny savita: Okay. We understood about the… dot product, Cosine similarity.
sunny savita: Okay? We understood about the Euclidean distance. I will show you, again, I will show you this thing. Practically, I will show you. It's going to be more clear, okay? This is remaining. Now, the third, basically, we understand the differences between the encoding and embedding.
sunny savita: This difference is clear between the encoding and embedding.
sunny savita: Okay?
sunny savita: Again, we'll come to this one. Once, mathematically, we'll deep dive into it. Then, we understood about the semantic search.
sunny savita: semantic search.
sunny savita: Or, you can say similarity search.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: Similar T-Search.
sunny savita: Then we understood about what? Keyword search. Okay, keyword search, how the keyword search is working.
sunny savita: Keyword search.
sunny savita: versus… Similarity search, or… semantic search.
sunny savita: Right? And then, guys, we understood about the application of the embedding. Okay? Then we understood about the application of the embedding.
sunny savita: So, the foundation of the embedding is clear. Now, we have to deep dive into some mathematical thing and the practical thing, so the thing will be more clear to all of you, right? So, did you like this entire session, guys, about the embedding and all? Now, let me show you where you can find out all the model.
sunny savita: Regarding the current embedding, okay? So I'm going to show you that.
sunny savita: The first one, basically, is going to be this leaderboard, okay? MTBE leaderboard. So, over this MTBE leaderboard, actually, you will find out all the embedding model, right? See?
sunny savita: Can you see this, embedding model, guys? This one?
sunny savita: Is it visible to all of you, this one? All this embedding model?
sunny savita: This one.
sunny savita: Yes or no?
sunny savita: Yeah, these all are the opens. Means, they have highlighted a model, they have listed a model based on the performance.
sunny savita: You can check, whichever is the open source, whichever is not an open source. Okay, they have given the complete detail.
sunny savita: The second is going to be this one, okay? And, this,
sunny savita: embedding benchmark result, right? This one. This embedding benchmark result, actually, we derive from the MTEB, okay? So, this I will discuss, right? I will discuss about this MTB and all, what it is. So, see, this is the MTB. MTEB, okay? Massive Text Embedding Benchmark.
sunny savita: So, using this one now, we can check which embedding model is a good one, which is not a good one, right? We can check out with this MTB. So, whatever model you can see over here, we can evaluate using the MTB also, this particular model. Now, apart from this one, guys, you can check with this Hugging First Transformer.
sunny savita: So, here also, you will find out all the open source embedding model. Let me show you that. So, this is all the embedding model. It is going to be load, guys, just a second. Let it load.
sunny savita: See, this one.
sunny savita: the embedding models are there. I can check out with their repository, okay? So, see, this is all the model.
sunny savita: Under the sentence transformer, actually, you will get so many embedding models.
sunny savita: Okay, see, under this particular repository, under the sentence transformer, you will get so many embedding models, whatever embedding model we are using currently, okay? You can go through with this, see, find all the sentence transform model hub. So once you will click over here, you will get that, see.
sunny savita: all the sentence transformer-based model, and all the open source embedding model. Googleca open source embedding model, Cuenka open source embedding model, Perplexitya, right? All the open source embedding model, you will get it over here.
sunny savita: So this is the leaderboard, this is the leaderboard. MTEBI will discuss, okay? You just need to go through with this transformer one as of now. Just check out, check out with the sentence transformer repository, right? So I'm sharing all this link with all of you, so that you can go through with it.
sunny savita: So, I'm sharing through the notion itself. This is the one… Here is the second one.
sunny savita: MTB, leave the MTB right now. Go through with the sentence transformer.
sunny savita: So, this is the… Sentence Transformer one.
sunny savita: Okay?
sunny savita: Now, here is the… one mode. So, this is the documentation of it. Just check out.
sunny savita: Yeah, this is the repository, and another one is the documentation.
sunny savita: So I can mention. You can explore that, and don't worry, guys, I will, explore… sorry, I will show you each and everything in the going forward session. I can copy and paste the link, of the Notion, so that you can get it.
sunny savita: Okay? And don't worry, this all… all the thing, entire thing will be available under the repository, okay? Under the resource section.
sunny savita: Okay, now, guys, tell me, should I go with the practical, or in the next class, we can discuss about the practical and all.
sunny savita: Next class? Okay, I will go in the next class, okay? So, the practical and all, everything is ready, guys. See, here you can see, this is the complete practical. I can show you the entire practical, which we can discuss in the next class, okay? So, would you like to see the practical, guys? Yes or no?
sunny savita: Yes, let me show you that. So, don't worry, we'll write it, from scratch. See, this is all the encoding method. One-hot encoding, then we have the, account, this one, bag of words, then we have TFIDF.
sunny savita: Okay? Then, here you can see we have the SOTA embedding method.
sunny savita: So, sentence transformer, any model you can load, then you can see over here Google embedding, Google Genitive AI embedding from the Langchain, we are going to be loaded. Then you can see the OpenAI-based embedding, okay? OpenAI one.
sunny savita: And now you can see we are going to be evaluated with each and every method. Cosine similarity, dot product, Euclidean distance. Okay? So we have OpenAI-based embedding, we have Jiminy-based embedding, see, this is the OpenAI-based embedding, Jimmy-based embedding, and we are going to be checking the similarity between the embedding.
sunny savita: Then, we are going to be discuss about the, classical word embedding. See, we are going to be discussing the classical word embedding, how the classical word embedding was working. So, this is the complete spectacle with respect to the classical word embedding, okay?
sunny savita: Then, guys, we are going to be discussing the evaluation of the embedding. So, if we have any sort of a model, which model is the best one? So, see, guys, this is all the model, means you can keep as many as model, right? So, this is all the model, we can evaluate which model is the best based on this MTB benchmark, okay? So, if someone is asking you how you are going to be evaluate the best model, how you are going to select the best model of the embedding, so based on this MTEB benchmark.
sunny savita: can select the best model of the embedding based on this particular parameter. So, we are going to discuss that. Okay, then we are going to check the differences between the keyword and the semantic search, so this is the complete practical of it. So, these many things we are going to discuss with respect to this practical,
sunny savita: Sorry, with respect to this embedding practical, okay?
sunny savita: So tell me, guys, did you like the depth of the topic? Did you understand each and everything? Once we'll discuss a couple of more method technique, everything is going to be clear, okay?
sunny savita: And guys, please be with me for next,
sunny savita: I think, 5 to 6 months. Believe me, guys, no one is going to beat you in a generative AI. You will understand everything in the generative AI, okay? Whether it's a rag, Agent AKI, and all, everything you will get to know that, right?
sunny savita: I think many of you were asking, sir, why you didn't start yesterday. Now, tell me, guys, see, first, I should clear all the base and all, no? Now, how… see how the session is going smoothly, correct? If yesterday, if I could have started this, all the theory and all.
sunny savita: Then, tell me, guys, the session would be like this only. No, again and again, you will ask me, sir, this link, that link, which link, what link.
sunny savita: Okay, so first I need to set up the base.
sunny savita: Set all the fundamental coding co-pilot, and all the environments and all. Then only we can process with the session now.
sunny savita: I don't know why some of the people don't understand and writing any anything inside the chat and all. Really, guys, it hurts a lot, actually.
sunny savita: Yeah, we'll give you the real-world example also.
sunny savita: Right?
sunny savita: Yo.
sunny savita: Okay, great. So guys, I'm going to be convert this, Notion into the PDF, and I'm keeping inside the same, just a second, where it is. I'm keeping in the same GitHub, actually, so that you can get it, okay? So, what I can do, I can export it.
sunny savita: Don't miss out the next session, we are going to be learning many more practical things over there, okay?
sunny savita: Class 03, and coding.
sunny savita: an embedding.
sunny savita: So, what I'll do, guys, I'll keep in a same,
sunny savita: I will keep in the same folder, okay? And I'll give you through the GitHub.
sunny savita: Got it? And this is the handwritten notes. I'm going to keep this also, so I'm going to keep it as a PDF, okay?
sunny savita: So, just give me a moment, I can keep this also as a PDF.
sunny savita: So, class 03… And coding…
sunny savita: I'm betting… PDF.
sunny savita: Sorry, Henryton.
sunny savita: Okay, so here I have bought the thing.
sunny savita: Now, I can give it to you guys, just a second.
sunny savita: Let me check it out.
sunny savita: Yeah, this class 3 now.
sunny savita: Okay, guys, so I pushed both the notes, or both the PDF over the GitHub, you can take it from there. Let me show you where you will get it. So, just refresh your GitHub, this GitHub link, and check out with the folder. See?
sunny savita: Here you will get… You will get it.
sunny savita: In the next class, we are going to discuss the practical and all. Today's session, I'm going to be concluded, okay? Today, I'm going to conclude this session. In the next session, what we are going to do, we are going to discuss, some mathematical derivation.
sunny savita: And then, guys, we'll come to the practical part. I think I already shown you the practical and all. So, this is the GitHub URL.
sunny savita: Okay, thank you, guys. So, just, read out all the theory, just again go through with all the theoretical concept one more time. It's going to be more clear, okay, in the future, once we'll connect it with the practical, na?
sunny savita: Once we'll connect it with a real-time example. See, I kept each and every kind of example over here. I will make it more intuitive, okay? So, this is the document, then here we are going to be checking mathematically. First, we are going to be check keyword on a keyword basis, then we are going to be checking on a, like, embedding basis, okay?
sunny savita: Now, see, this is all the, basically, this is what? This is the…
sunny savita: encoding method, okay? So, how the encoding looks like. See, this is the one-hot encoding, it looks like this. What is the meaning of the sparse? Sparse means we have zeros over there. We have zeros inside the vector, okay? See, here is a zero, guys, right?
sunny savita: This is called a sparse. Here is also 0. So this is a sparse vector, but if we are talking about the embedding, guys, right? So this is a dense vector, means we don't have zeros over here. So how the dense vector is going to be created, right? So you can see over here. Now, one more thing I would like to highlight over here, guys, please generate your, this, this key, right?
sunny savita: OpenAI key and Google API key, right? If you want to do… if you wanted to access the OpenAI-based model or Jimmy-based model, please generate those key. If you don't know that, I will show you in the next class how to generate those API keys and all for accessing the model. Got it, guys? Yes or no?
sunny savita: Tell me, yes? Making sense? Okay.
sunny savita: So, fine, guys, thank you, bye. I think we are done with today's session. I hope you liked. The next class, we'll start from wherever we left.
sunny savita: Okay, so after completing this particular chapter, we'll move to the next chapter. So, most probably in the next class, we are going to be complete this encoding or embedding chapter, or else I will take one more class for that. So, max to max till Monday.
sunny savita: We are going to cover, we are going to wrap up this, encoding and embedding, then we'll start with a different chapter, okay? Great.
sunny savita: Yeah, we'll come to that. We will come to that, okay? How it is being used inside the LLM and all, everything, right? Great.
sunny savita: So fine, guys, thank you, bye, take care, so we'll see you in the next class. Next class is going to be on next Saturday. Until, thank you, bye.
sunny savita: Take care, guys. If you have any sort of a doubt, please write it down.
sunny savita: Inside the community.
sunny savita: Okay? Vell it out only. Or else, you can mail to me directly. If you don't have my mail ID, please,
sunny savita: Okay, so please keep it with you, I'm writing inside the chat itself.
sunny savita: Essencerivas3365 at the red gmail.com.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: So this is the mail ID, or else you can ping me over the LinkedIn also, I'll check over there.
sunny savita: Got it.
sunny savita: Great.
sunny savita: So, fine guys, thank you, bye, take care. Next class is going to be on next Saturday. Until thank you, bye, take care. I'll see you in the next class. Thank you. If you have any sort of a doubt, be here.
sunny savita: I will take your doubts now. Okay, I will take your doubts, I will, whatever doubts you have with respect to this theoretical concept, practical, everything I will check.
sunny savita: So, thank you guys, bye, take care. I'll take 5 minutes of break. After that, I will start with a doubt session.
sunny savita: Okay? Good night, guys. Bye, take care. Yeah, good night. Take care, guys. Bye. Okay? Yeah.
sunny savita: Okay, so let's start with a doubt, guys. If you have any sort of a doubt, you can raise your hand.
sunny savita: Am I audible, guys? Yes or no? Please do confirm.
sunny savita: Great.
sunny savita: Okay, so I'm giving access, one by one.
sunny savita: Yeah, Ashish, please go ahead, what's your doubt?
sunny savita: If someone belongs to the different time zone, then you can write in a chat.
sunny savita: I will give the preference to those folks, okay?
sunny savita: Yeah, Ashish, please go ahead. Kavita, Ashish, anyone is there, please go ahead.
KAVITA LALWANI: Hey, hi, Sunny, actually…
sunny savita: thing is.
sunny savita: Second… wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
sunny savita: Should we go… Yeah, can you speak again?
KAVITA LALWANI: Yeah, yes, Ani, am I audible?
sunny savita: Yeah, you are audible. Yeah, please go.
KAVITA LALWANI: Okay, Sunia, first of all, thanks. I think today's session was very, nice, and I think being a non, like, not with this background also, I could understand well on the theoretical part.
KAVITA LALWANI: So, I'll just keep continuing on, and also request if you keep in the same pace, because I think many people's already knowing few concepts, but, like, people like me, we are still on the very initial phase.
KAVITA LALWANI: It'll help if you can keep the same pace.
sunny savita: Yeah, sure, sure, we'll keep the same face only, okay? So, I understand, everyone can understand with this space, actually, whether they know or don't know, okay? So, I'll keep the same, don't know, okay?
KAVITA LALWANI: Great. So, Sunny, just, for this UV, I asked yesterday also that, I'm still facing the issue, just wanted to showcase if you can help me.
KAVITA LALWANI: And probably practical.
sunny savita: Yeah, share the screen, I will check that, okay?
KAVITA LALWANI: Sure.
sunny savita: Yeah, Ashit, do you have any doubt?
KAVITA LALWANI: Okay, so I'll just try to share my screen.
KAVITA LALWANI: Okay, I just opened my… this…
KAVITA LALWANI: You can see my screen. Let me…
sunny savita: Yeah, I can see.
KAVITA LALWANI: Okay, so terminal, I tried this with the same, so it was showing me installed,
KAVITA LALWANI: But now, again, I'm not sure if UV is installed for me.
KAVITA LALWANI: Try to open the new…
sunny savita: UB is not there, is it?
KAVITA LALWANI: So, yeah, UV actually not, installed. It was with… PowerShell yesterday, but again.
sunny savita: Just a second…
KAVITA LALWANI: Right? I'm not.
sunny savita: Can you, can you delete this, all that, all the CMD, all the terminal, can you delete that?
sunny savita: Just do it.
KAVITA LALWANI: Okay, let me… I'm not sure where to delete.
sunny savita: Delete all the terminal, whatever you opened now, right? Those ones.
KAVITA LALWANI: Should I…
sunny savita: We're only, you will… they're only…
KAVITA LALWANI: goes on, right?
sunny savita: No, no, delete… you will get the delete icon there only.
sunny savita: Over the mouse there, over the mouse there, over the, over the CMD, CMD.
sunny savita: See, CM… See, delete, second icon, second icon, delete icon.
sunny savita: Second icon.
KAVITA LALWANI: Maybe from this…
sunny savita: Second icon, second.
KAVITA LALWANI: They couldn't there.
sunny savita: See, hover the mouse over the CMD, CMD, CMD, CMD.
KAVITA LALWANI: Second, second half, okay.
sunny savita: Delete all the…
KAVITA LALWANI: Oh, okay.
sunny savita: Yeah, delete it, delete all the one.
KAVITA LALWANI: by PowerShell also be deleted, right?
sunny savita: Yeah, everything, delete everything.
sunny savita: Delete, delete, delete.
sunny savita: Yeah, now open the new terminal. Go with the 3 icon.
sunny savita: Open the new terminal there. Not here, not here, not here. 3, 3 icons that… along with the go.
sunny savita: Beside the go. View Go thing.
KAVITA LALWANI: Three dots.
sunny savita: View, selection, view, go, header, check with the header.
sunny savita: Left-hand side.
KAVITA LALWANI: Okay, yes, yes, okay.
sunny savita: View, go three dots, three dots.
KAVITA LALWANI: Okay.
sunny savita: terminal.
sunny savita: Newton.
KAVITA LALWANI: terminal, right?
sunny savita: Oh.
sunny savita: Now here, select CMD.
KAVITA LALWANI: CMD.
KAVITA LALWANI: new, primarily.
sunny savita: Command prompt, command prompt, command prompt, ma'am.
sunny savita: Again, go with the drop-down, click on the command prompt.
KAVITA LALWANI: Okay.
sunny savita: Now right here, pip install UV.
sunny savita: pip is not recognized. I think your Python is not configured, that's why it is showing like that.
KAVITA LALWANI: Yeah, it's been configured yesterday.
sunny savita: Python here, right? Python?
sunny savita: Just exit from here.
KAVITA LALWANI: So if it's a CD.
sunny savita: Your system is a Mac, or whatso?
KAVITA LALWANI: No, it's a Windows.
sunny savita: Just write exit from here, exit.
sunny savita: Right exit.
sunny savita: Open parenthesis, close parentheses. It is giving you the option, to write exit there, correct?
KAVITA LALWANI: Okay.
KAVITA LALWANI: So…
sunny savita: Exit, open parenthesis, and close parenthesis, ma'am. See, use exit or CTRL-Z. It is giving you that instruction also, correct?
KAVITA LALWANI: Oh, it is showing exit is not defined.
sunny savita: Ma'am, right?
KAVITA LALWANI: Excel Z plus return to exit.
sunny savita: Exit, open parenthesis, and close parenthesis.
KAVITA LALWANI: Okay.
Anubhav: I think brackets.
sunny savita: This one. Okay. Now, wait, so UV…
sunny savita: Ha, now write this, python hyphen m pip installed UB.
sunny savita: hyphen M, Pyth… space, give space between Python and hyphen M.
sunny savita: Oh.
sunny savita: M, M, M, M.
KAVITA LALWANI: 10, right?
sunny savita: Oh, M…
KAVITA LALWANI: It's M only, a small M on capital M, is it?
sunny savita: M&r, right? Okay. FIP installed, UV.
KAVITA LALWANI: Not sure if anything… Happening here in Bedford.
sunny savita: It will install the UB with this command, python-m. See, UB is installing, right?
KAVITA LALWANI: Okay.
sunny savita: Got it. Now run the UV command now.
sunny savita: Now check UV version, UV hyphen hyphen virgin.
sunny savita: We've installed UB, why it is not showing now.
KAVITA LALWANI: Installing, collected, successfully installed.
KAVITA LALWANI: Showing UV version UV.11.2.
sunny savita: Uv version, right? What you written? UV version.
Anil Venkatrao: No, sometimes they have to restart the… this, visual.
sunny savita: today.
Anil Venkatrao: Closed and open again, it'll show up.
sunny savita: Just do one thing, just reload it. Press Ctrl-Shift-P,
sunny savita: Press Ctrl plus Shift plus P, okay?
sunny savita: Huh, now reload window, right here, reload window.
sunny savita: Huh. Reload.
KAVITA LALWANI: It's amazing.
sunny savita: Click on that, huh?
sunny savita: It's going to be reload the entire window.
KAVITA LALWANI: So, again, type this, you know, version check.
sunny savita: Now, right over here, python-M UV version. I think you have some issue with your path, maybe. That's why it's not able to reach out to that location.
sunny savita: Okay, write Python-M UV version. Check, check with that.
sunny savita: You haven't added the Python, maybe, inside your, inside this one, your path.
sunny savita: Ma'am, version, hyphen, hyphen version,
sunny savita: python hyphen hyphen m UB hyphen hyphen version. Write the correct, command.
KAVITA LALWANI: I didn't…
sunny savita: python hyphen m UB hyphen hyphen virgin.
KAVITA LALWANI: Correct.
sunny savita: Hit enter.
sunny savita: See, with Python, everything is working fine.
sunny savita: Okay, but with pip or UB, it is not working. Why it is not? Because your Python is not getting detected, actually. Whenever you install the Python, this 3.14 inside your system, you haven't added the path, actually, inside your environment variable.
sunny savita: That's why it is, showing like that. Okay, so just check how to add the path inside the environment variable, this, basically your Python path.
sunny savita: Okay, add it over there, restart the system, you won't get that issue, okay?
KAVITA LALWANI: Okay, so should I restart and retry again?
sunny savita: No, no, just check first. Just check with the chat GP, I think you will get a few commands, 2 to 3. You will get to know how to add the path inside the environment variable. If you're not getting, then let me know, okay? I will check that one, okay?
KAVITA LALWANI: Okay.
sunny savita: After adding the path, restart the system. Got it?
sunny savita: Yeah. With Python, everything will be working, but maybe with paper UBL, it will not be working, because it is not able to take the core Python.
KAVITA LALWANI: Okay, so where to add the Python? It's again the same program for.
sunny savita: Environment variable mein path et karna hai. Environment variable mein path kasi et karte hain.
sunny savita: Jahapay aapne Python ko install kiay, right? Where you install the Python, you will have to check that.
sunny savita: Right? With command Python where, or something like that. Just chat with the chat GPT, you will get some command. Just write over there, how to add the part to the environment variable. Write this prompt only, you will get the command. Okay? Do it, let me know if you're not able to do, I will take your doubts again, okay? Because there are so many people in the queue. Got it?
KAVITA LALWANI: Yes, yes.
Anubhav: You can also check the reference from the introduction session on the second day. He mentioned…
sunny savita: Just a second, who is speaking? Anwab, you are speaking, right?
Anubhav: Yes, yes. She can take a reference from that.
sunny savita: Speak loudly.
Anubhav: resources.
Anubhav: I, I would say, I was talking that she can also take the reference from the second day class.
KAVITA LALWANI: Take care.
Anubhav: They're…
sunny savita: In the second class, I think, Monol has shown that part of.
Anubhav: Yes, everything is there, starting from the.
KAVITA LALWANI: Yeah, let's just check this recording.
Anubhav: variable and everything, yeah.
KAVITA LALWANI: I'll take that request.
sunny savita: Just attempt it, and again, come back after, like, 15-20 minute Kavita, okay? I can help you with that, don't worry, okay?
KAVITA LALWANI: Sure. Thank you.
sunny savita: Okay, next out is Pooja, Mehi, Anwab, anyone is there?
sunny savita: school.
Pooja: Hi, Sunny. So, just wanted to check, you explained about encoding and embedding. So, in encoding, you mentioned first, it is a count-based technology, and for embedding, you mentioned it is an embedding. What is… like, I didn't get the word that count-based technology. What is the meaning of that, like…
sunny savita: Yeah, so we'll… I will explain you that. In the next class only, we'll discuss, okay, about that, what is the meaning of the count base and all, but if you wanted to know right now, I can give you the quick glimpse of that, okay? Just a second.
Pooja: Oh.
sunny savita: C.
sunny savita: Mmm… this one, no?
sunny savita: Can you see this image, right?
Pooja: Yes?
sunny savita: See, this is the WEGO board, actually. So, inside that, what we are doing, just focus.
sunny savita: We are… we are having this, document one.
Pooja: Hmm.
sunny savita: We're having this document, too. Document means sentences. Sentence is also called the document. So these are the sentences, basically, you can see. The dog makes child happy. How many times it is coming?
sunny savita: dog is coming two time, dog one time, one time, one time, one time. Inside this sentence, see, like this. So, how we can represent the D1? So, we can represent the D1 like this. 1, 1, 1, 2. This is my vocabulary.
Pooja: Yes.
sunny savita: How we can represent the D2? Like this.
Pooja: Same like this one. This is what?
sunny savita: This is done.
sunny savita: counter base.
Pooja: Okay.
sunny savita: frequency-based.
sunny savita: So this thing I will discuss in the next class, I will show you this kind of derivation, so that easily you can make a discrimination between the techniques, right? If we're talking about the embedding technique.
sunny savita: So, embedding technique, actually, it works with the neural networks.
Pooja: Yes.
sunny savita: Okay, whenever we talk about the neural network, now, see, I can show you the neural network image also, see? You know about this image? This is the neural network.
sunny savita: Okay, so the neural network, whenever we pass the data, this one, this imports.
sunny savita: It's going to be learned through these weights.
sunny savita: Okay?
Pooja: Okay?
sunny savita: Weirds is what?
sunny savita: This weight is an importance number, which we are providing to the input.
sunny savita: Right? So this baits only, actually, it's called the embeddings.
sunny savita: Learnable number. Learn kiowa number. Context Samas Tai number, actually.
Pooja: Okay, okay.
Pooja: Okay. So this thing…
sunny savita: we'll understand the next class. Understood?
Pooja: Yes, yes, but more thing only. Like, you mentioned about the embedding, one more thing, that early 2018, 1920, it was word-based searching only, right?
Pooja: But afterwards, then SOTA comes, it is, like, based on the transformation, it's, like, context-based searching.
sunny savita: Hmm.
Pooja: early 18, 19, we can say, like, embedding and encoding are the same, because both things are doing same thing only. In encoding also, we are doing the same thing, only word-based searching only.
sunny savita: There was a problem with the encoding, na. And there was a problem with the word, what to back, this classical method, na.
sunny savita: As I told you, the problem was what? So here, we are not going to be capture any semantic meaning. This is just a frequency-based.
Pooja: Yes, yes. Okay.
sunny savita: In word-to-back method, again, those embedding was a static embedding. We see we are going to be generated with respect to any word, so irrespective… irrespective to the context, the embedding is going to be same. I've given you that bank example.
Pooja: Yes, yes, yes, yes.
sunny savita: Right?
sunny savita: But if we're talking about the SOTA method, transformer-based method.
Pooja: That'd definitely be.
sunny savita: Actually, we are going to be generating the context-based embedding. Understood?
Pooja: Yes, yes, yes, yeah. Thank you so much.
sunny savita: So just give me one more class, you will understand in a better way.
Pooja: Okay, okay, sure, sure. Thank you so much.
sunny savita: Thank you.
sunny savita: Okay, next out is.
rishav: That's fair.
sunny savita: Yeah, Methri, Anubav Rishab, anyone is there. Guys, go ahead.
rishav: Hi, sir, it's, Risham this side.
rishav: So, dot product and cosine similarity both have the magnitude and an angle. Then, what is the difference between them?
sunny savita: Cosine, actually, it's a normalized value.
rishav: Dot product, etc.
sunny savita: Usually, it's not a normalized value, it could be anything from 0 to infinite, okay?
rishav: Okay.
sunny savita: Yup.
sunny savita: If we're talking about, say, we're talking about a dot product, no?
sunny savita: What's the formula of the dot product? Let me.
rishav: Dr. Burner.
sunny savita: i.e, it was about…
rishav: be…
sunny savita: I'll show you in the next class, but okay, let me show you now.
sunny savita: I will show you in the next… okay, if you're asking, wait, give me a moment, I can show you that formula, okay, wait.
sunny savita: See, this is a formula for the… dot product.
sunny savita: Can you see this?
sunny savita: It is visible.
rishav: Yes.
sunny savita: Hello?
rishav: Yes, sir, yes.
sunny savita: Yeah, and this is the formula of the cosine similarity.
sunny savita: So, cosine similarity, just a normalized value, actually. See this one.
sunny savita: This is the dot product, and this is the cosine similarity. Now, dot product, what we are doing.
sunny savita: So, just going to be perform the product of the value QND,
sunny savita: Query in the document, and the submission.
sunny savita: Okay? Now, here in the cosine, see, this is the dot product, the same thing, this one only, and we are going to be normalize it, actually.
sunny savita: Okay, so we can write like this, QD is equal to…
sunny savita: cos theta of the… of this normalized value. So we can represent this thing in the form of…
sunny savita: We can represent this thing like this also, okay? This is a real formula, actually, QD, and we drive like this, okay? And if we are going to check the cost theta, so it will become this. So.
sunny savita: Jada confuse niho na hai. This is going to be a normalized value.
sunny savita: Okay, means we are going to reduce our range of it, mathematically, from minus 1 to… plus 1.
sunny savita: And here, the range of this one is going to be 0 to infinite.
sunny savita: So, because of this range only, na, this thing is going to be discriminate.
sunny savita: Okay.
rishav: Okay.
sunny savita: So, you will get it in the next class, okay, don't worry.
rishav: Nope.
Anubhav: Okay.
rishav: I guess…
sunny savita: sorry, minus infinite to plus infinite, correct. It could be minus infinite to plus infinite, but generally, we don't consider the minus 1, we don't get it, actually. That's why, in my mind, I had this 0 to infinite. Actually, in the Euclidean distance now, we get this 0 to infinite.
sunny savita: Euclane distance is going to be 0 to infinite.
sunny savita: Oh, L1, correct.
sunny savita: Okay, so… Mathri, yeah, Methri, please go ahead, Anubab Matri, anyone is there?
Mythri Sabath: Yes.
Mythri Sabath: Actually, I want it for the system setup, can I just share my screen? I just want… since Python is already installed, that environment, I just want it.
sunny savita: Okay, I'm promoting as a panelist, show me.
Mythri Sabath: With a shared risk.
Mythri Sabath: Where will I get the option for sharing scheme?
sunny savita: Yeah, you can share the skin, there is a share option.
Mythri Sabath: Yeah, sorry, it is in between.
Mythri Sabath: Yeah.
Mythri Sabath: Whoa.
Mythri Sabath: Yeah, Lex, the Python install is 3.135.
Mythri Sabath: And when I, like, I tried to install this 3.1, 12.3 also.
Mythri Sabath: But when I run this command, I got the error, so…
sunny savita: First of all, use the CMD, not the PowerShell.
Mythri Sabath: Okay.
sunny savita: Click on the dropdown and select the CMD, okay?
sunny savita: command prompt.
Mythri Sabath: Me.
Mythri Sabath: Okay.
sunny savita: Huh, open that, open the CMD?
Mythri Sabath: Yeah, I opened it.
Mythri Sabath: what I have to install is a UV hyphen machine.
sunny savita: Now, right here, you be… wait, wait, wait.
sunny savita: Now, right here, UVPython list.
Mythri Sabath: Hmm?
sunny savita: Okay, see, you don't have a 3.12L installed, that's why you're getting this particular issue. So, first of all, you will have to install that.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: So, what you need to write over here? You need to write…
sunny savita: Oh, just a second, I think I've given you the command over the notion, no? Yes. UBPython install.
sunny savita: No, no, go with, go with the CMD.
sunny savita: UB Python install.
sunny savita: And then give the 3.11 one.
sunny savita: Copy the 3.11's interpreter name.
sunny savita: 3.11.15, huh? And provide over here.
sunny savita: Huh, now hit enter.
sunny savita: See, it is downloading, right?
Mythri Sabath: Yeah, it says installed.
sunny savita: Now you can check UB Python list again.
sunny savita: Now, see, you got that 3.11, right? So, right here, UB, V, N, B, ENB.
sunny savita: E and B.
sunny savita: Now, hyphen, hyphen, python.
sunny savita: Now give that, 3.11 path. Copy that path. Sorry, copy that interpreter name, 3.11.
sunny savita: 3.11.15. Now provide that.
sunny savita: Now, hit enter.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: So, UBVNBBNB, what you got? Python?
sunny savita: Using CPython creating virtual environment? Yes, right, yes?
sunny savita: Oh, it is created, okay?
sunny savita: Now, copy this ENV script, activate, copy this path.
sunny savita: Now paste it over the terminal.
Mythri Sabath: Oh, like here only, or poet?
sunny savita: Terminal, here only, terminal only.
sunny savita: PowerShell ka use nahi karwab. Okay, don't use the PowerShell. See, ENB is created now.
Mythri Sabath: Yeah, somewhere in the Explorer, you were showing that.
sunny savita: Hori?
Mythri Sabath: Explorer mein kahi aap dihare, tena ENV karke yaan peop open, close vegara hooray.
Mythri Sabath: Explorer.
sunny savita: permit…
Mythri Sabath: Oh, you will get.
sunny savita: you get it… you will get that… see, you… where you are right now, you are at Dell location. You see user Dell. Yeah.
Mythri Sabath: Hmm.
sunny savita: Okay, so you are at this location. If you will check with this location inside your file explorer, you will get the CNV folder there.
sunny savita: Okay, so do one thing, create a new folder, a specific folder, repeat this step, create a virtual environment over there. Got it?
Mythri Sabath: So only this an… till this only I have to do?
sunny savita: Yeah, this is step only you need to follow, correct?
Mythri Sabath: Okay, bye.
Mythri Sabath: So first I have to create a folder, and go inside the folder, and then follow.
sunny savita: ENV is what? ENV is just a folder, that's it. There you are going to be keep your packages and all, okay?
Mythri Sabath: So Python is already installed, right? No need of installing Python again, right? Or is it, like, full receipt?
sunny savita: Python install, no need to install it again, got it?
Mythri Sabath: Oak.
Mythri Sabath: Okay, fine.
Mythri Sabath: And some commands, something you wrote, like, print off or something, like, print all, okay, so where can I run that?
sunny savita: For the IPYNV you need to write. So, first you need to create an IPYNV file, then there you can write that. So create a folder, there, create an environment, then create an IPYNV file, and write those print command and all, okay?
Mythri Sabath: Okay, Ben. Thanks, then.
sunny savita: Yeah.
sunny savita: Yeah, Anul, Anub, Anwab…
Anil Venkatrao: Please.
Adithya V: added, too.
Anubhav: Think.
Anubhav: Aditya, do you want to continue?
Adithya V: Yes and no, sorry.
Adithya V: Thanks a lot.
Anubhav: Go ahead.
Adithya V: Yeah, hi Sanisa, good evening. Thanks a lot for the session.
Adithya V: So, I just basically have two questions. So, first thing, so, like, my three did the setup, so I also has done the setup. So, I created a virtual environment named ENV in the current repository, which I am working at, okay? So, but when I have installed the requirements using UV. UVA add method, okay?
Adithya V: So, it has created a separate virtual environment called .env. So, I didn't understand why the requirements were not placed in ENV folder. Instead, it created a new virtual environment. So, that is the first version I have finished.
Adithya V: So…
sunny savita: Sorry, I didn't get… can you please repeat?
Adithya V: Can I share my screen for a moment?
Adithya V: If you can allow me.
sunny savita: pretty dynamic, you know, as a pen.
Adithya V: Boop.
Adithya V: I think I haven't got the option yet.
sunny savita: Anubab, right?
Adithya V: Additive.
sunny savita: added, okay.
Adithya V: Yes.
sunny savita: Yeah, I promoted as a panelist.
Adithya V: Thanks. My pleasure.
Adithya V: Yeah, so I'm sharing my screen.
Adithya V: So, yeah, I hope you can see my screen, sir.
sunny savita: Yes, I can see that.
Adithya V: Yeah, so basically, I, just, forked your repository, and I've created a ENV virtual environment under it, okay, so using this, UV command. So this was created, but then later, I had actually, started installing all the requirements from the command you've given.
sunny savita: Oh.
Adithya V: Okay, so when I started using this command, so it has created its own .env virtual environment.
sunny savita: Separate.
sunny savita: Hmm.
Adithya V: ideal expectations, since I'm familiar using PIP, so we were doing, so all the.
sunny savita: Actually, see, there is a difference. If you're writing ubpip install, in that case, it is going to be installed in your current virtual environment, right? But if you're going to be done this command, ub add, so it's a UB native command, right? In that case, what it is going to do, it is going to be create, see.
sunny savita: With UB add, you will not get this VNB.
Adithya V: Oh, good.
sunny savita: Whenever you're going to be writing UB in it, then you will get it.
sunny savita: And even with a UB ad also, you will get this. So don't use any UB-specific command, use pip command along with the UB.
Adithya V: Along with… yeah, got it.
sunny savita: write the ubpip install hyphen arrecon.txt, and inside the env folder only, you can download all the recond.txt, okay?
Adithya V: Okay. So, one more question in this case. Say, suppose if I have used UV native commands, and later, now the active environment is ENV, right? So, but these requirements got installed in .VENV repository. But while I'm working on a project, so, will this get utilized, or I'll have.
sunny savita: No, no, I think you will get error, you can check that even. Just import anything or run your file IP1B, you will get error there.
Adithya V: So basically, I then have to use pip, so that.
sunny savita: You will have to activate the BNB over here, just activate the BNB, okay?
Adithya V: Okay, okay, okay, got it, sir. Thanks a lot. And one more question, sir, so…
sunny savita: Environment is nothing, it is just one folder where we are managing all the modules.
Adithya V: Oh, yeah.
sunny savita: If you will publish this code. So, this is going to be a module, someone will download it using pip and all, and he will be using that.
sunny savita: So in the same way, actually, you're just creating one folder, there you are installing all the required module, that's it. Who is… whoever… whatever is created by someone else.
Adithya V: Okay.
Adithya V: Right.
Anil Venkatrao: Hey. Hi, Seth.
Adithya V: And one more question, sir, sorry.
sunny savita: Yep.
Adithya V: Basically, as part of the fine-tuning chapter that we have, right, so are we going to see this model distillations as well there, or is it not part, I mean, scope of the current,
sunny savita: I can show that. I can take one, specific session onto it. I can show that, okay?
Adithya V: Oh, okay, okay, yeah.
Adithya V: Thanks a lot.
Anil Venkatrao: It's…
sunny savita: Just give me a sec.
Anil Venkatrao: Right.
sunny savita: instance.
Anil Venkatrao: Yeah, hi, Sunny.
sunny savita: Yeah, Anil, sorry, Anwab, please go ahead, then Anil, you can go ahead.
Anubhav: Thank you, sir.
Anubhav: Sir,
Anubhav: My question was… I have 2 or 3 queries, so I will go one by one.
Anubhav: One was related to MTEB.
Anubhav: So, is this the only benchmark that we can use to choose the best model, or we have other different criterias that we can use to choose the best embedding model during our use case? So, how we can, you know.
Anubhav: select, or how we can choose the best model as per the, you know, use cases, our use cases.
sunny savita: Huh, so you have some other way also. MTB is one of the leading benchmarks. Then another benchmark is a BEIR. You can check the specific research paper onto that.
sunny savita: Then we have some custom techniques, right? So, based on the dimensionality of the embedding.
sunny savita: So, whether it's lightweighted, balanced, or high-quality dimension, like 3000, 4000, okay? The costing of the model, or domain suitability, means whichever model is working for all type of data.
sunny savita: Right? So, with those parameters also, we can evaluate the model. But if you're asking to me the specific parameter, benchmarking parameter.
sunny savita: In that case, basically, MTEB and BEIER is two param… two benchmarking para… two, basically, benchmarking platform, okay? Inside that, we have a different, different parameter. I can show you that, see, once you will go and check with the BEIR benchmark.
sunny savita: This is a research paper of it. Let me show you the research paper, see? Beir means a heterogeneous benchmark for zero-short evaluation of the retrieval model.
sunny savita: So there also, we evaluate the embeddings and all. It is a very good research paper, you can go through with that.
sunny savita: And MTV is, like, the tested one, means, there you will find out so many parameters to evaluate the, mathematical parameter, actually, to evaluate the embedding model. Other than this, you can make your own parameter, like, as I told you, dimensionality, cost, domain suitability, and all, got it.
Anubhav: Okay, thank you. My second query is related to… there are two terms we generally use. One is parameters, second one is dimension.
Anubhav: Are these two same, or they have some difference, or what it is?
sunny savita: It is same only, no? Dimension, parameter…
Anubhav: Okay.
sunny savita: Just talk… just… see, this, dimension means the… how many numbers are there in the vector.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: Just keep that word in your mind, it is important.
Anubhav: Okay, so we can interchangeably use, dimension or parameters, right?
Anubhav: Is it the correct index?
sunny savita: Parameter, I'm not getting.
Anubhav: For example, if we… if we say 75, 75, 175 billion parameters, right? So, is it that…
sunny savita: parameter is a different one. Those are the weights and biases of the model, okay?
Anubhav: Okay, so these are different things.
sunny savita: Boom.
Anubhav: And dimension is something different. Can we… can we understand dimension like if we talk about the vector? So, there is an X and Y.
sunny savita: No, no, Deco, Deco. See, you are getting confused. Let me explain you that.
Anubhav: Yes, yes.
sunny savita: Mmm, give me a moment, wait, yeah.
sunny savita: So, let's say we have the Neural network, okay?
sunny savita: Write this one, and this one.
sunny savita: This one and this.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: And this one, okay? Now, tell me, what is a parameter? What are… how many parameters is there? Can anyone calculate the parameter of this particular model?
Anubhav: Hmm… If we take…
sunny savita: 2 into 3.
sunny savita: plus 3.
sunny savita: Right?
sunny savita: Plus 3 into 2 plus 2.
sunny savita: Right? So 6 plus 3 is equal to 9.
sunny savita: 3, 2, 6 plus 8, okay? So 9 plus 8 is going to be 17.
sunny savita: So, we have 17 parameters inside this network.
sunny savita: But what is the output dimension of this particular mod? What is the output dimension of this particular model?
sunny savita: Too.
sunny savita: What is the output dimension of this particular layer?
sunny savita: Tell me.
sunny savita: Three. Three, right?
Anubhav: Don't activity.
Anubhav: Okay.
sunny savita: Right? So, dimension is a different thing, parameter is a different thing. So, I would suggest you learn about the neural networks, you will get to know about that. Okay?
sunny savita: Parameter means weights and biases of the model, okay?
Anubhav: Okay, okay, okay.
raghav Pal: Hi, hi.
Rahul Kumar: I love this.
Anubhav: Just last question regarding embedding and vectors.
Anubhav: Can we use, are these… of course, vector, as we were, learning during the session, vector is the mathematical term, but if we come to Gen AI or this thing, then it is… becomes embedding.
Anubhav: Is it characterized standing?
sunny savita: Correct, correct. Meas those vector itself? Meas those embedding…
Karthik: Manuel.
sunny savita: Those vector itself is called the embedding.
sunny savita: with respect to any data representation. Let's say I'm representing my data in terms of vector. Those is called the embeddings, because it is… it is, basically, representing some contextual information. Getting my point?
Anubhav: Yes, yes, yes.
sunny savita: That's it. Vector is the vector report na hai.
Vivek: Hi, hi, Sunny. Hi, Sydney.
Anil Venkatrao: Hey, hi, Saturday.
Vivek: node.
sunny savita: Wait, wait, wait, guys, wait, guys, let me call the name. Anyone is there? Please go.
Anil Venkatrao: Yeah, Anil is here, yeah.
Anil Venkatrao: Yeah, Sunia, your class was, you know, absolutely, you know, to the point, and I liked it very much, and thank you very much for, you know, making other people to understand. I just quickly want to, you know, understand, like, you know, I'm basically having 10 years of experience in Java, and as well as in the data engineering, but however, in the Python, I'm new, kind of newbie.
Anil Venkatrao: So, you know, just wanted to, you know, double confirm from you, whatever the thing I have done is, you know, it's syncing with your, you know, projects, or the… whatever the things you're teaching, so just want to double confirm. Can I share my screen with it, and just quickly for 2 minutes?
sunny savita: Yeah, you can share just a second.
Anil Venkatrao: Please allow me that option.
sunny savita: Okay, Anil, right?
Anil Venkatrao: Yeah, yes, honey.
sunny savita: Okay.
Anil Venkatrao: Yes.
sunny savita: Karthik, what is your doubt? Would you like to share the screen?
Karthik: Yeah, it was, it was, you know, I mean, I don't want to share the screen. This was just a screens. Right, when he shared the screen, I had a basic doubt, so if he's sharing the screen, right? So, when I do a UV add numpy, and when I do a pip install NumPy, what is the difference between what I'm.
Karthik: Because I also have.
sunny savita: Yeah, yeah, I see you.
Karthik: B…
sunny savita: Yep, install means you are just going to be install that particular library inside the current virtual environment.
sunny savita: UB add, actually, it's a UB native command. So inside that, you are going to be install the library inside the virtual environment, as well as you are going to be added inside the TOML file, you are going to be… log that library, so later on, whenever you are going to be pushed this environment anywhere, right? Anywhere means you are going to be pushed to the, like, testing environment or production environment, okay? So you can utilize the same
sunny savita: kind of version. So UB add is doing the same thing. It's a UB native command. It's going to be track your version, traceability and all it's doing, through the TOML file, through the log file, okay, through the version file. UBPIP is a simple command, just to install the library into the current virtual environment. That's it, okay?
Karthik: But why would you, I mean, I suggest you get to install, I mean.
Karthik: showing my mom's the right way. I mean, just, I'm curious to know why, why I.
sunny savita: Can you be loud, little loud?
Karthik: No, my question is, you were suggesting…
sunny savita: Oh, can you be a little loud? I cannot hear you properly.
Karthik: Right now, is it fine now? Is it fine now?
sunny savita: Yeah, it is fine, yeah.
Karthik: Yeah, so my question is, you were, encouraging to use UVP install, instead of UVAD. I mean, was there any… because UVAD, as you explained, right, it has a lot of, you know, if I push this… my module to the repository, then I… I mean, I can… I'll be able to see the versions and all, but that will not be available if I use UVP install for NumPy, for example.
Karthik: So…
sunny savita: No, no, see, sir, as of now, we are not doing that production-grade development now.
Karthik: Oh, God.
sunny savita: doing in our local itself. Let me show you that. See. Can you see my VS Code?
Karthik: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
sunny savita: Okay, see, they go. Abi, Menelika, if I'm writing, UB pipipinstall.
Karthik: Nope.
sunny savita: what I can write, let's say I can write, YAML, okay? I written up install YAML. See?
Karthik: Huh?
sunny savita: Okay, YAML… I think it's a Py YAML, right? Let me check what it is.
sunny savita: Ub piv install.
sunny savita: by YAML.
sunny savita: See, it has added the package, okay? Nothing happened. It's simply added inside this environment.
Karthik: Bye.
sunny savita: Okay, means it is just going to be there inside this particular folder. Got it? Right? But let's say, if I'm going to be right the same thing, see, I'm going to be right right now, UB,
sunny savita: pip, uninstall.
sunny savita: Yeah, pyaml, okay? Let me delete this library. It is deleted. Now, if I'm writing UB addPyaml.
sunny savita: Now, see, what will happen, C?
sunny savita: Oh…
sunny savita: what it is… Okay, pi project is not there. So, first of all, what I will have to do, I will have to write UB init.
sunny savita: I will have to initialize the UB, okay? See?
Karthik: Oh, God.
sunny savita: I will write UB init, see, it is… it has created this Python version, get ignored and all everything. Py project to ML. Now, if I will write UB, basically this one, what I can write, UB install.
sunny savita: by YAML.
Karthik: Okay, I'll add, right?
sunny savita: Okay, now, what? Okay, UB ads, sorry.
raghav Pal: I…
sunny savita: Sorry, sorry.
raghav Pal: Honey, I have the similar… same question on this, on behalf, you know, I mean…
sunny savita: Just, just a second, let me clarify that. Okay, one by one. UB add, Py YAML. Now, see, what happened? What happened over here? It has created some more files. See, UBLock is there. So, what it is going to lock over here? See, it's going to be lock the information of all the packages, whatever I'm using.
Karthik: Right?
sunny savita: See this one, all the detail. It is going to be log, the entire info… it is going to be keep the entire information, dependency and all, inside the TOML file also, over here.
sunny savita: Okay, and here you can see, Python version is also created inside the uBinit, and see, by default, it has created one version for me, right? So, UB we can use with the pip wrapper. UB with the pip, okay?
sunny savita: And we can use some UB native command also.
sunny savita: Getting my point? Yes or no? So, we can use UB in a two-way.
sunny savita: Si.
sunny savita: We have Python.
Rahul Kumar: Which one we use for production?
sunny savita: Ha… wait, wait, let me complete that. So we… let's say we have a Python, okay?
sunny savita: So, here is a Python.
sunny savita: Now, for… Python module, for managing the Python module, they created the pip.
sunny savita: Correct. It comes along with a Python.
Karthik: Packaged, yeah.
sunny savita: Okay. Now, the repository for the pip, it's a PyPi.
Karthik: Pipe, huh, okay.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: Now, over the pip itself, they have created one more wrapper, the UB wrapper.
sunny savita: And this, they have catered with the, I think, with the Rust language.
Karthik: Yeah, so that's fine.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: So, we have some… UB-specific command, UB-specific command, And we have…
sunny savita: UB pipip command, right? We can use this particular wrapper, the UB wrapper, on top of the pip. So in both ways, actually, we can work with this UB.
sunny savita: Right? So, let me show you.
sunny savita: if I'm going to be… write this thing to the chat GPT, okay? Let's ask the chat GPT the same thing. Just a second. Let me show you the different other commands, okay? Wait.
sunny savita: Hop.
sunny savita: Can you see my screen? This one?
Karthik: Right?
sunny savita: Let's say if I'm going to be right over here, Can you… give me UB native commands.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: So… it will give you all the ubiquitib commands.
sunny savita: See, UB init, UB add.
sunny savita: The UB remove, UB sync, UBL lock, you'll be run. This is the UB native commands.
Karthik: Got it.
sunny savita: Right? Now, if I will ask, Can you give me… UB commands… Via… pip.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: So, see, this is all the commands which it has given to me. Now, see, pip-style command also is there. It has given to me without asking, basically. So, this is a UB native commands, and this is a…
sunny savita: pip… UB pip commands. Okay, now, I can simply ask over here, Which ones should I use?
sunny savita: should I use?
sunny savita: should I use… use UB Native?
sunny savita: like, you'll be at… Or should I use… You'll be with PIP.
sunny savita: Okay. Like, UB… PIP, install, and all, right?
Karthik: Production-grade patho? We'll be adding… Okay.
sunny savita: I'll now see, let's see what it is going to be. Answer.
Karthik: Oh, shit.
sunny savita: Okay, I generated two hands, sir, it's fine. So, what it is saying, let's look over here. UB add means native for the project, okay? UB pipipinstall only for the quick temporary one. So, that's what I was saying now, what I was saying, see.
sunny savita: I was saying, if you're simply working with this development environment, okay, if you wanted to manage the, all the packages inside the ENV environment only, then work with this UB pipip.
sunny savita: Okay, UB pipip. Sorry, UB add command, right? Native, sorry, UB pipip command, if you're simply working with the ENV. But, if you are working with a production-grade system, right, means you wanted to
sunny savita: Basically, what I can say, port everything from your development environment to testing to production environment, then work with the UB native commands.
Karthik: Okay, alright.
sunny savita: Getting my point. So, see, it is writing same thing. Professional, scalable production, because you are going to be track each and every information over here.
Karthik: I can see that folder called, UVENV got created. That is with respect to your UV.
raghav Pal: So…
raghav Pal: On top of that, right, like, if I have to, like, add… if I'm working on a new, you know, like, Python version or anything, like…
sunny savita: Please, speak loudly. I think your voice is a bit low.
Anil Venkatrao: Yeah, hi, we kind of lost, it seems. Can I just quickly share my screen? After that, you can go ahead with Rago.
sunny savita: I'm coming to you. First, let me clarify this doubt, okay? I think this is not clear in the first session by when Monol was taking, and this was also in my mind when I was exploring this UB and all. Yes, who was asking this? I think, Kar thing, you were discussing.
Karthik: So, JC, when you type that UV init command, right, it created a VNP path folder, along with all these things, and we activated that VNB.
Karthik: Now, if I don't want to do that, I mean, if I do it, by default, ENV is activated, which is to do with the VIP.
sunny savita: But over the terminal, you will have to activate the VNB in that case, okay?
Karthik: Correct, correct. Correct, so much done. I got it there.
sunny savita: Got it?
Karthik: Yeah, thanks, thanks for that.
sunny savita: Yeah. Thank you.
sunny savita: Yeah, SV, what's your doubt? SV, Vivek, Ashish, Raja.
Vivek: Amy?
sunny savita: Yeah, I'll be weak.
Vivek: Yeah, so, Suni, I have a really small doubt. So, my question is, earlier we have classical methods like bag of words, TFIDF, yeah? So, these methods are just creating encodings, but not capturing the context. Then, later we got Word2Web, which was introduced, which is based on neural networks, right?
Vivek: And, same, this method was also not able to capture the semantic meaning.
Vivek: So, my first question is, why was there a… there was a shift from classical methods to Word2Vec? Like, the problem that earlier was… did not get resolved with Word2Vec, capturing the cementing meaning. So, what is the difference between Word2Vec and these bag of words, or the reason behind switching from bag of words.
sunny savita: We'll discuss in the next class, okay? I'll, I'll show you that. Once I'll drive that, we'll discuss, okay?
Vivek: So, like, can you just kind of give me a small example of Word2Vec where it is being implemented?
sunny savita: Not too bad, basically, it was a model, neural network model, which was trained on some data set.
Vivek: Okay.
sunny savita: So if you're giving the… any word around to that data, it's going to be generator embedding. But, for every word, basically, it's going to be generator same embedding, whether… irrespective to the context. Means, if any… let's say, bank word is being used with the river or with the money bank, okay, in both cases, bank embedding is going to be same.
sunny savita: It's not going to be check the context with respect to the sentence. That was our, like, simplest difference. And, encoding, basically, we are not going to be considered that. Nowadays, we are not using that. It's just a frequency-based method, that's it, okay?
Vivek: Okay, okay, got you. Thanks.
sunny savita: Yeah.
sunny savita: Okay, Vivek is done. Now, SV, please go ahead.
sv: Yeah, hi, so, may I share my screen? Let me see how to share my screen.
sunny savita: Getting you in a penalist.
Anil Venkatrao: Sunil, can I share my screen now?
sunny savita: Wait, Anil, coming to you after.
sv: Hello?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Hello?
sv: Hello, can you hear me?
sunny savita: Yeah, yeah, SB, please share the screen.
sv: Yes, just let me see which screen I'm sharing.
sv: Do you see any of my screen?
sv: Shit settings…
sunny savita: Okay, Anil, you were already there in the panelists.
Anil Venkatrao: Yeah, that's right.
sunny savita: Sorry, I didn't… I didn't see you then. Don't worry, I'll jump to you afterwards.
Anil Venkatrao: Okay, I'm sharing my screen.
sunny savita: SV, you can share, then Anil… Okay, Anil, you…
sunny savita: Okay, Anil, fine, Anil, yeah, show me that.
Anil Venkatrao: Yeah, quickly, as they were saying, right, it's, you know, fine to use with this ENV, and as ENV has already clarified with this, so it's fine, right, to use this. This is the only environment I have it, ENV environment.
Anil Venkatrao: Which I'm currently pointing out.
Anil Venkatrao: Yeah, and the question being, right, so the… this one, like, the encoding, embedding, IPNB you said, right, earlier it was not working, so I just did, you know, some sort of an analysis, and, you know, through this kernel adding and all, later on it worked. It's basically what I did, I cleared the output, it was…
Anil Venkatrao: not working. So it was asking to, you know, this site, this to kernel add by Jupyter some plugin, something
Anil Venkatrao: So I did that. So that's the right path, right, to execute your code in the next session.
sunny savita: Correct, correct. Select the right kernel, okay? That's it.
Anil Venkatrao: Yeah, so it says all okay, then now it's giving the output.
sunny savita: See, here you are working with the ENV environment, and there you selected the real project environment. So both are different, just click on that.
Anil Venkatrao: Okay.
sunny savita: Select another kernel.
Anil Venkatrao: This thing is, you know… okay. Which one you want me to select here?
sunny savita: another kernel.
Anil Venkatrao: This one doesn'.
sunny savita: Another kernel, another kernel.
Anil Venkatrao: Okay, another comment.
sunny savita: Python environment.
Anil Venkatrao: Okay.
sunny savita: Now select the ENB over here, last one.
sunny savita: That's it. Now run it again.
Anil Venkatrao: Okay, sure, let me clear the output.
Anil Venkatrao: Okay, so that'll push me to?
sunny savita: Wait, it will… it takes time… it will… might take time, okay? If, it will give you the output weight.
Anil Venkatrao: Okay, meantime, reload. So, Sunia, I just have another follow-up question. That is being, like, you know, since, you know, as we know, like, you know, following up your session, so which are your prerequisitions? I mean, we'll definitely study all the models, but
Anil Venkatrao: timing for next session, like, you know, which is, like, Hugging Face and, PyTorch, which model will be.
sunny savita: For our next session, what you can do, you can just, check out with the Hugging Faces sentence transformer, that's it, okay?
Anil Venkatrao: Oh, sure.
sv: I… Shall I… shall I share?
sunny savita: Yeah, Anil, let it run, you can share, SB, okay?
Anil Venkatrao: Sure. Thank you, Sunny, bye.
Rahul Kumar: Alright, Sunny, I have also a question.
sunny savita: Wait, as we please share the screen.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: What's a question.
sv: Yeah.
sunny savita: I will come to everyone, guys, please wait, okay?
sv: Yes. Just a minute.
sv: I'll be able to record the contract, obviously.
sv: Your screen is until it's quite taken.
sunny savita: Are you sharing the screen as well.
sv: Yes, yes, I'm trying to, it is giving some kind of error, do you…
sv: So, can you see my screen?
sunny savita: No, I cannot see.
sv: Okay, let me… Share. Do you see?
sunny savita: Yeah, I can see now.
sv: Okay, so I didn't create the… I just created the virtual environment using the UV command, which is .vnv it created.
sv: But, after I installed all the packages that you provided in the requirements.txt using the uvadd minus our requirements.txt, it was giving,
sv: packages not installed in the project, TOML, POA project TOML,
sv: And, I don't know, I did something like select an interpreter. Though I did the interpreter, which one I'm using here?
sunny savita: Here it is giving error, show me the error.
sv: Error is gone now. Here, it was coming that these packages were not installed in your selected error.
sunny savita: Now, everything is… everything seems fine here, what is the issue?
sv: Okay, the issue is gone now, because in the meantime, when I'm not speaking…
sunny savita: See, if it is showing the traditional.
raghav Pal: Then you need to…
sunny savita: Download… then you need to install that interpreter, okay?
raghav Pal: Senior on the scene.
sunny savita: Wait, wait, guys, coming to you, okay, one by one. I will come to you, Niranjan, wait, okay, wait.
sv: Yeah, so what I did is,
sv: I did the select interpreter here.
sv: And my question is why it was not taking the, by default, the interpreter, though I did the source V and B activate… I activated the interpreter. Why it was still…
sunny savita: Cooking the interpreter. Now, see, there is two things. One, activating over the terminal, second, selecting over here, okay? So, if you will see, bottom right-hand side, see, what is your interpreter? Bottom right-hand side, bottom, bottom right side. Krish in Gen AI, right-hand side.
sv: Yes, yes, yes.
sunny savita: this one. So, this is for your file one, okay? And the second one, basically, for the terminal. Both is different, actually.
sunny savita: Getting my point. So, wherever.
sv: This is for the… Okay, this is the terminal, so when I activate it, this is for the terminal.
sunny savita: dominant.
sv: than that.
sunny savita: Right, it won't select over here, actually.
sv: Okay, okay. So the executing in the terminal was changing to the interpreter that I have chosen by the source, but when coming to the editor… Okay.
sunny savita: No, no, see.
sv: In the editor, I have to select this, okay.
sunny savita: Select manually, correct. Your understanding is correct now.
sv: Okay, got it. Yeah, that was the confusion. If I'm selecting, why is it… why…
sunny savita: No, no, no.
sv: It depends on diamond.
sunny savita: Yeah.
sv: I, removed, installed the virtual environment quite 3-4 times, and somehow I selected the interpreter the last time, while you're talking, but I had the confusion that… why it is asking me, so you clarified. Thank you, Sanek.
sunny savita: No, thank you, sir, thank you.
sunny savita: Okay.
Rahul Kumar: I am not sure.
sunny savita: is… Yeah, guys, coming to everyone, Rahul, Shawbek, Neeranjan, Mayank, anyone is there? Please go ahead.
Rahul Kumar: Yeah, Rahul is there.
Mayank Sharma: Thank you, sir.
sunny savita: Okay.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Chlovik is the…
sunny savita: Niranjan… wait, Niranjan, you had some.
Niranjan: Yeah.
sunny savita: You were saying something, right?
Niranjan: Yeah, yeah, Sunny, my humble request,
sunny savita: Please speak loudly, I cannot.
Niranjan: Can you, can you hear me? Can you hear me? Can you hear me?
sunny savita: Your mic is, like, I think 2 away from you. Just check.
Niranjan: No, I'm very closely, can you hear me now?
sunny savita: Yeah, yeah, please go ahead, I can manage.
Niranjan: See, Sunny, actually, my humble request, I sense that, like, you know, most of our folks, I'm not sure, I didn't watch it all, but the uvinstallations.vnvconfiguration, envconfigurations, or requirement.txt executions.
Niranjan: The fundamentally, I think that what is the exact flow we have to execute it, that something is, like, you know, we are missing.
Niranjan: So if you guys create any documents or any videos, please share that, Sunil, because whenever I tried it, somehow back and forth I was executing, then I'm able to execute the requirement.txt. Now.
Niranjan: But if you find some, you know, step-by-step documents, like, you know, exactly what you shared in the last 2-day days, similar to that, if you have something, that would be helpful, Sunny.
sunny savita: So, sir, I'm giving you the step-by-step command only now, right? Over the notion, I mentioned those command, even.
raghav Pal: The construction session was the installation.
raghav Pal: you know, like, even some part is missing, you know, and I wanted to talk about the same thing, actually. So, on the last class, we had… we did not have the Jupyter notebook, right? Like, that one was not there, actually.
raghav Pal: So somehow, you know, like, it, it, you know, like, you know, somehow it came up, that topic, and many of us, you know, like, got confused, you know, like, whether we need to go… we missed something or what.
raghav Pal: So it was not there?
Niranjan: Yeah, yeah, absolutely, Sunil, like, no, you are actually documenting step-by-step, no doubt about it, that
Niranjan: configurations, there are step-by-step init is there, project. When you create it, right, pyproject.paml, was not there, then the UV init command got executed, right? Somewhere from the last class, I see that, like, you know, people, most of the people, like, you know, couldn't follow that exactly what step needs to be done, like, you know, for the ENVVNV configurations and the UV configurations, Sunny.
sunny savita: Hmm.
Niranjan: I sensed it because last… whenever I tried it, now I'm able to execute the requirement.txt, but I really do not know how exactly I executed back and forth, I was playing around, and somehow it got executed now.
sunny savita: Okay, so what you want? You want the, the command documentation, right? Where every command should be mentioned, and you, just by seeing that, you can follow it, is it?
Niranjan: Yeah, yeah, can I share my screen quickly, and then I'll tell you if it would help for everyone. How do I share?
sunny savita: Yeah, you can share, you can share. I'm adding in a panelist.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Salin, this is Shovik. I have given you a step-by-step UV that Monal has taught us. So, I have created a text file, and I have given in the chat box.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: It can work for you.
sunny savita: Hmm.
Niranjan: So, you see here… So, if you see here, right,
sunny savita: No, no, I cannot see your screen. Nanayan, please share the screen.
sunny savita: There is a share option, share icon only, just…
sunny savita: or press Alt-S. ALT-S, you will get that.
Niranjan: Huh? Yes.
sunny savita: Yeah, I think your camera is on now, please check out that. Stop video, okay?
Niranjan: That's fine, it shouldn't be a…
sunny savita: Yep.
Niranjan: Okay, Shastream.
Niranjan: Are you able to see my screen?
sunny savita: Yeah, I can see.
Niranjan: So, Sunny, so yearly, right, when you executed, you did not have .vnv, right? Later, like, no, I was watching out your screen very closely, you had only ENV, and then I watched how you did not have a project or TOML, but you were able to execute this requirement.txt successfully.
Niranjan: And when you were explaining to someone, like, you know, you were executing that UV init, and then it automatically creates that, like, you know, project.tml.
Niranjan: So, there were some edit options, right? So my humble, humble request is, like, you know, how exactly we need to set up this ENV environment and execute.
Niranjan: packages, project.tml edit, Python versions, something like that. If you can document something, no, that would be helpful, Sunny. I, I, because I follow… Okay, okay.
sunny savita: I got it. Yeah, no, yeah.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Are you able to see.
raghav Pal: I need the same things, and you know, like, I, even for the same reason, like, you know, like, I was on the call, and, thanks, you know, like, bringing up this new engine, you know, like, I had the same question, actually.
sunny savita: Okay, okay, guys, so what I will do, see, in the next class now, I will take 1 hour for this, UB setup only, okay? I will teach you this UB, all the necessary command.
sunny savita: And which command needs to be followed, and even I will give you the differences also, okay? Means when to write UB init, what you will get with that, what is a pyproject.taml, when to use this, okay? And when to run the simple command. And I will, document all those as steps, and I'll provide to you. And throughout the implementation.
raghav Pal: Maybe Sunday, you know, like…
sunny savita: step only.
raghav Pal: not the next class, you know, like, I mean, if you can, you know, like, just provide the installation steps, right?
sunny savita: So, if you want the documented step, I can provide you that, if you agree with that only, okay?
Niranjan: Fair enough, fair enough.
Rahul Kumar: We're in a weird example.
Niranjan: So, that is fair enough.
sunny savita: Sure, guys. So next, in the next class, I'll share the document, okay?
Niranjan: Yeah.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: What is, .
Niranjan: One fun…
Niranjan: Let me ask, and I'll close it out, my friend. Sunny, like, you know, people are checking… clicking that, like, you know, the terminal over here, right, in the search file.
Niranjan: So, how do they select it? Like, no, they type the Python, and then they select it, or what was the options there? Because I was able to execute…
sunny savita: This is the overall search, actually. This is the overall search.
sunny savita: But you can search on a classes, function, and even on a variable level. So I will show you some productive hacks in the VS Code, basically when I will teach you the project, okay? Whenever we'll move to any practical or any project now, I will show you some productive hack over here, how basically you can navigate to the class, function, different variable, how you can search any sort of a file over here. Got it?
Niranjan: Okay, okay, so we will, so can we wait for, in a day or two, can we get the document in that, portal, Sunny?
sunny savita: Yeah, I will share in the next class, or you will get it over the portal itself, even I will keep it over the GitHub also, okay?
Niranjan: Not a problem.
manas: I mean, I have a similar question. Can I ask?
sunny savita: Just, just a second. So, Niranjan, you are done, right?
Niranjan: I'm done, I'm done. I will wait for the documents, Si.
sunny savita: Thank you.
Rahul Kumar: training.
sunny savita: Yeah, so, whoever else…
Rahul Kumar: No, no, no.
sunny savita: Let me handle, let me call the name, okay? Otherwise, it's not going to be well then. Yeah, so, Vijay Raghav, or Ashish, anyone is there, you can…
raghav Pal: Yeah, this is my lawyer.
raghav Pal: Hello?
sunny savita: Yeah, Ashish, please go ahead, yeah.
Ashish Gupta: Hi, Sunny. Sunny, I got dropped in between, so I did not… my requirements are TXT, those things are not completely installed, but I just heard that few other people are having the same problem.
Ashish Gupta: So, maybe what you can do is you can do it for once, so that others can observe, or maybe if we can have these instructions sometime soon, so that we can follow it before the next class, so that we are ready by then.
Ashish Gupta: Is it possible, or…
sunny savita: Sorry, sorry what you said, that…
Ashish Gupta: All the packages that those are mentioned in this requirement.txt. I have not been able to install them all. Few are failing.
Ashish Gupta: So, and I think many others are having the same problem. So, before the next class, when we get into the practicality.
Ashish Gupta: Can we have a document so that we all are prepared by that? Or if you can show it now on one of our computers, so that others can follow and then repeat the same thing?
sunny savita: Document-wise, see, I'm sharing all the live commands and all, whatever I'm running, with you, right? Dynamically, I am sharing all those things, right? So the very first thing, you just need to execute those commands, getting my point. See, I understand, even when I was running this, requirement.txt before the class, I think one hour back only, one hour before the class, even I was getting the error.
sunny savita: So that's why I set up with this 3.11, I set up some library version, and then everything was working. So that's why I was saying, guys, please create an environment with 3.11, requirement.txt and all. If you're following those command, it will be working fine. But still, if you're getting any sort of an issue error, you can show me in a doubt session, and don't worry, guys, after the class also, you can practice peacefully those things, okay? No need to worry, no need to panic about those things.
sunny savita: And, for documenting everything, to write it down, this, that, whatever, it's going to be, like, very, very tedious, okay? I'm trying my best, I'm trying to share, like, even everything on the spot itself, via GitHub, via Notion, and all, everything, guys, okay?
sunny savita: I'm trying my best from my end, but if you're getting error, if you're getting stuck somewhere, then hold over there, click a help of the chat GPT, or maybe Copilot, whatever thing we have set up, okay? And then the doubt session, you can ask me those things, right? But whatever thing I can document, I can provide you, I'll do that. Got it?
Ashish Gupta: Sure.
sunny savita: Okay, Ashish…
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Oh, may I talk?
sunny savita: Good job.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Hi, Doc?
sunny savita: Yeah, Vijay… yeah, Swabik, I think you're waiting for… yeah, since…
Manish: Yes, please go. Please give me a chance.
Rahul Kumar: I have a hold on.
sunny savita: Okay. Yeah.
Rahul Kumar: Sonny, I have a small doubt.
sunny savita: Rahul will come to you. Sovik, please go ahead.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Firstly, am I audible?
sunny savita: Yeah, you are audible.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, just before my query, just to give, tell you, Sunny, in the community chat, when I was installing the UV basis, the monols are teaching, I have created a step-by-step process, and that I have given in the community chat. This can help them.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Firstly. Secondly, is that… and if you… you can check if anything is wrong, you can tell me. Anyway, secondly is that my… the same question I had, like, UVA add the native and PIIP that is sorted. Now, the main question that I want to ask you is that, next class, on the fourth, right.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: 4th, right? 4th of April, Saturday. So, that day, I was travel… I will be traveling, so I can't join. So now, can you tell me that, what exactly, from the previous course, I can refer, so that, because on 5th, the recording will be downloaded, then after 2 hours, the class will be started, so that I can
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: catch the fifth class, what from the previous courses I need to go through?
sunny savita: Huh, so you can go and check with this embedding and encoding section, okay? If you're asking about the previous batch, right? Your question is that only, correct? Yeah, so you can check out with the encoding and embedding classes. I think it is highlighted section-wise, so if you will check with that dashboard, you will get it, okay?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, so you… I have already gone through that. There, you have taught us what to wake, and then some tokenization, practical, sentence tokenization, what tokenization, those kind of things, right?
sunny savita: Hmm.
sunny savita: So those was the first class. After that, if you will look into the, the consecutive class, right, so you will get the, this, Word2Bag, TF IDF, monot encoding practical, every practical, every sort of a concept you will get, okay?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, and another question is that, that you were showing some IPY and beam and Jupyter notebooks, which you will be going through… will go through the next class, but you have planned, actually, for this class, so can those be uploaded on the courses material tomorrow, so that, means I can go through that before coming to 5th?
sunny savita: Yeah, yeah, sir. Along with the video, it will be available, but I am sharing you on the Sport, I think, in the GitHub only, I've shared that.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: No, no, no, you have not… you have not… you have not shared that one. I was saying that…
sunny savita: That's okay, those IPYNB, haha, those IPYNB, basically, I have to do some more refinement over there, then I will share, okay?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay. Yeah, okay.
sunny savita: It is in a rough state right now, I just shown you that. So, in the next class.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay.
sunny savita: I will share that.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: And actually, the next class, I will not be there, that is the reason anyway. Okay, cool.
sunny savita: Nobody, nobody.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Another point I need to ask. So, can I share my screen quickly?
sunny savita: Yeah, you can share.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: to share with them.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Hope you can see my VS Code, right?
sunny savita: Yes, I can see.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, so here I have created, because my previous folder was with the UV native comment, I have created a new folder, and I have created the requirement.txt that you have given, and then the step you have, said, UP, with UV and pip, okay? Now, suppose if I want to… just, just a question, just…
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: for understanding. Suppose if I am doing a UV net, then VENV will be… currently, this is my environment, and VENV will be in… will be there as a wrapper up to… above this, right?
sunny savita: No, actually, one more folder will be created with a VNB.vnb, actually, okay?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay.
sunny savita: If you want to use that particular environment, you will have to manually activate that one, okay?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Got it, got it. Another… another question is that, like, for example, from here, comment palette, we are selecting Python, this interpreter, and I am… I remember when I was going through the prerequisites, and some of the previous courses class, there you have.
sunny savita: Oof.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: you have told to install a Python extension, something from the extension. So, what is that extension? Which is coming from Microsoft?
sunny savita: Correct.
sunny savita: That extension is required to access the Python in a VS Code, actually.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, so what… what extension is that? Because my laptop is…
sunny savita: Pension is nothing, just, like, another set of files and folder, which is specifically required to take some permission from, from the, like, system Python to this VS Code, that's it, okay? You install the.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: What is that name of the Python extension?
sunny savita: Python only, right? Python there?
sunny savita: you will get that Microsoft one, yeah, first one, this one, huh? Correct.
sunny savita: Now install that.
sunny savita: I think you already installed it, yeah.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, okay, it's been installed. Okay, thank you, I don't have any more questions. Thank you, bye-bye.
sunny savita: Okay, thank you, sir, thank you.
Rahul Kumar: Sunny? Hello?
Manish: the knee.
sunny savita: Yeah, Vijay, please go ahead. Wait, Vijay, please go ahead. Rahul and Bijay. Vijay, please.
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: Like, did… Can you hear me?
sunny savita: Yeah, I can hear you.
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: Yeah, I'll just share my screen, I just moved.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: Rahul, Mayank, would you like to share the screen?
Manish: Sir, money's decision.
Rahul Kumar: Yes, yes, Dennis, right?
Rahul Kumar: I just want to share one.
sunny savita: Okay, adding in a pen list.
Mayank Sharma: sunny days.
Manish: I'm also in the queue for a long time, so please join me.
sunny savita: Okay, Manish also.
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: Hi, City.
sunny savita: Still be… you'll be joining.
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: So actually, as per the previous instructions itself, so I already had a, what's the virtual environment created, right? You can see this.
sunny savita: Hmm.
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: So I just, so this was my… originally, I had the Python, this version was there. So what I did today was, basically, I just had to…
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: Yeah, let's say, add your, like, UV add requirements, then basically I had to install. So now, my question is basically, so this is the Python version that I have. You said this might not be suitable, right?
sunny savita: Hmm.
sunny savita: Huh, this environment, this Python 3.4, don't use this one, use 3.11, or 3.12, okay?
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: Okay, now, is it possible for me to now install and then uninstall the same version.
sunny savita: Right? That command, no, ubpython install, I think I've given you the command, right? Run that command.
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: this one, right? So basically.
sunny savita: Open that Notion one? No, not…
sunny savita: Current, today's Notion, today's Notion file.
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: This one, right?
sunny savita: Today, again, I've shared one more, no?
sunny savita: Do you have that?
sunny savita: Okay, just do one thing, go with the class 3, and open this Notion Notes. Notion. Class 3, Encoding emitting Notion, how this?
sunny savita: Open it.
sunny savita: Now here, see the command, ubpython install.
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: Okay, you rewrite the install.
sunny savita: Right here, UVPython install.
sunny savita: And give that a specific interpreter name, okay?
sunny savita: See Python, see Python. Scroll up.
sunny savita: Now CPython 3.11.
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: 3. This one, right?
sunny savita: Copy the name, paste it there.
sunny savita: Copy the name, paste it there. Yeah, now hit enter. Hit enter.
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: Okay.
sunny savita: See? It is downloaded, right?
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: So it doesn't interfere with the previous one? Like, say, I also.
sunny savita: No, no, no. It has, again, installed a new version. With this version, you can create a virtual environment, okay?
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: Okay, so I can keep the same environment, or, like, you need to create a new environment once again.
sunny savita: Create a new environment, delete this terminal, open the new terminal, create a new environment with this Python, okay? That's it. Delete this folder. Test dummy and VNB, create a new one with this particular version, okay?
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: Okay, so that I can… it's the same old procedure, right? Or how we start.
sunny savita: Same, same, same. UBVNBENV Python name, that's right.
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: Okay, so after that, what should be? Once again, you need to install all these requirements after that?
sunny savita: Correct. UBP pencil hyphen arikan.txt. Okay. Jada time nilaga, ubijaldi ojata installation, okay?
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: Okay, and this one needed be this one, after creating this one?
sunny savita: Haha, correct. UBVNB is required, right? This is for the… this is, like, we are going to be using this command very frequently, okay?
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: Okay, okay.
sunny savita: So, for creating a virtual environment. So, better if you can, means, what I can say, remember it, okay? Every time.
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: Okay, okay, okay. So I'll repeat, I'll create one more virtual environment in that case, right?
sunny savita: With that Python, actually, correct.
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: Okay. Okay, and one more doubt I had was regarding this embedding that you mentioned today, right? So, let's say you have a big, huge dictionary of words, right? Let's say if you're getting some… lots of PDFs.
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: So, you… so in that place, you'll get lots of vectors for each word, right? Like, if the words, number of words, length of the word is very, very big. So, you'll get lots of vectors, right? So how do you… how do you… how do we actually store them in a database? Is there any, comparing to the traditional database techniques, right?
sunny savita: So, once I'll come to the vector databases, Nasir, there we'll talk about all this concept, okay?
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: So, okay, the storing part is also discussed there.
sunny savita: Correct, correct. It will come inside the rack chapter, okay?
Vijayanand Palaniswamy: Okay, okay, fine, fine, fine, sorry. Thank you, thank you. That's what I was saying, thank you very much.
Rahul Kumar: Hi, Sunny.
Rahul Kumar: Can I show my screen?
Manish: Sunny, can I share my screen?
sunny savita: Raul, I'm adding on a panelist. Manish is also there, right?
Rahul Kumar: Yes, no, yes, honey.
Manish: Can I share?
sunny savita: Wait, wait, Manish. And who else want to share the screen? Can you,
manas: That is claiming this.
Way2Automation: Sanisa, I also want to share with you.
sunny savita: Okay, just write screen, screen in the chat, I will add you in a panelist, okay?
sunny savita: Okay, Manas want to share? Manas… And, way to automation.
sunny savita: Any more person wanted to share, you can write in a chat. I will add you in a panelist, okay?
Tej: Okay, thank you, Shanlad.
sunny savita: Okay, fine. Now…
manas: Hello. Rahul, just give me, 2 minutes, okay? I am coming with my water bottle.
sunny savita: Two minutes of break, okay?
sunny savita: Yo, software.
Rahul Kumar: So, basically, my question,
Rahul Kumar: Related to the setup as well. Previously, I am able to set up the files.
Rahul Kumar: So I have deleted that environment due to some error, because I… what I…
sunny savita: Huh.
Rahul Kumar: So now I have managed to install the instruction through GLAD. I don't know why the simple query is not running in this machine. It is always saying this access is denied, some error. Might be, administrator permission issue.
sunny savita: You are using your office laptop.
Rahul Kumar: Yes.
sunny savita: Then you cannot do it, sir. I think you will have to take your administration permission for that.
Rahul Kumar: Nate has the administrator permission. I use to manage Claude and the other things.
sunny savita: I can, sir, check with those folks only, because, see, generally I don't check with the office laptop, okay? Okay. I don't know what kind of, like, basically permission they are giving, VPN they are using, so I'm not sure about that. So, better if you can check with the IT team only, they can help you maybe with that, okay?
Rahul Kumar: So this is basically that issue, right? The extraction is not technical.
sunny savita: Alright, cool.
Rahul Kumar: For… for only one library. This…
sunny savita: Only for one Gen Sim library, huh? Actually, now, what is hap- see, do one thing. Check out the version. Okay, do one thing, scroll down.
sunny savita: Write Python over here.
sunny savita: 3.10. See, this is the issue, actually. You are using Python 3.10. Maybe with that, this one is not compatible, this version.
sunny savita: So you check… you can change the Python version also, okay?
sunny savita: Just use 3.11, and then…
4JN21EC075_RAGHU_P_R: What do you mean?
sunny savita: Download it again, okay?
4JN21EC075_RAGHU_P_R: that we do.
Rahul Kumar: If we are using this UV command and downloading, then it is working, right? This will also work, right? Or we need to set the default.
4JN21EC075_RAGHU_P_R: Tiny.
Rahul Kumar: environment variable.
sunny savita: No, no, no, with a UB only.
4JN21EC075_RAGHU_P_R: It's definitely worth it.
Rahul Kumar: So this UV only I'm able to download, I guess, no?
sunny savita: You can now create a virtual environment now with this, Python, with this Python version.
Rahul Kumar: So what I need to do?
sunny savita: delete the earlier version, or earlier virtual environment, and create a new virtual environment with this Python version, okay?
Rahul Kumar: Okay.
Rahul Kumar: Then I will try and let you know again.
sunny savita: You know now how to create it, right? Virtual environment? Yes, yes, ma'am.
sunny savita: please mute yourself, okay? Otherwise, I'll remove the permission.
sunny savita: Huh, so what I was saying, Rahul, you can create a virtual environment with this, Pythonic version.
sunny savita: And then you can install the library again, okay? All the library there, alright?
Rahul Kumar: Got it. Or also, one more thing, basically…
Rahul Kumar: I was just watching the Krishna Yaxar video of the Python. I did that.
Rahul Kumar: And basically, I am a she-share developer and managing a team of 15 people.
sunny savita: Okay.
Rahul Kumar: So… so now I am learning this, Gen AI stuff, so…
Rahul Kumar: I don't know about any neural networks, so your team suggested me to watch some videos. So that 6-hour video will be efficient for the next lecture.
sunny savita: Haha. Inside that, I think he covered the neural network, so just check out with that video, okay?
Rahul Kumar: That 6-hour video will be enough, because the Krishna XL video, they are around 100 videos.
sunny savita: Yeah, the 6R… just check out the 6-hour video, which we have given you over the portal, okay?
Rahul Kumar: Right, okay.
sunny savita: Yep.
sunny savita: Okay. That's it.
Rahul Kumar: So we can… how I can connect you in the further… if we have a further issue, through LinkedIn or through Gmail?
sunny savita: Just write in a community chat, okay? If anything, is there, which we cannot resolve over there, just do one thing, write me a mail directly.
sunny savita: Okay, so in weekdays, actually, I generally check with my mail if any serious concern is there, or any, like, basically doubt which I didn't solve over here, or if you have any doubt between your
sunny savita: Okay? Over the mirror itself.
Rahul Kumar: Okay, one more… the last question is…
Rahul Kumar: Can you, explain the dot product and the…
Rahul Kumar: cosine similarity, no, you just created one, the iPhone and Apple…
Rahul Kumar: kind of chart, right? But in the doubt session, you… in doubt session, you showed one quer… two queries. So, is there any difference? Or you will…
Rahul Kumar: I'll cover this again.
Rahul Kumar: The equation bar.
sunny savita: I shared, sorry.
Rahul Kumar: In the doubt session, you shared one equation.
Rahul Kumar: One of the guys.
sunny savita: is the formula, formula of it, so in the next class, I will show you that, okay?
Rahul Kumar: Okay, okay, okay.
Rahul Kumar: Nothing else.
sunny savita: Thank you.
Rahul Kumar: Thank you.
Manish: I'm listening.
Manish: And inclusion.
sunny savita: Yeah, Manish, please share the screen now?
Manish: What's true.
Ambika Prasad: Hello?
sunny savita: Manish, you can share the screen.
Manish: Yes, I have… I have just shared my screen.
manas: Yep.
Manish: Yeah. Thank you, sir, for amazing classes. So, I have, like, one query regarding this UV environment. So, actually, in that session, I saw all these UV-related means things. So, as you can see, like, also means, we were able to see the list of the UV path
Manish: So here, means we… I am able to find, like, 3.11.
Manish: Then, again, I killed that one in the full list, I think, see.
manas: See you, Dave.
Manish: But today, this is CG admin, and also I asked to the owner, sir, so as per them, we don't need to install again, because it is the one-time activity, correct?
sunny savita: Mmm… sorry, what you said, I didn't get.
Manish: It is one-time activity, or suppose we are creating the new folder on any other, like, ERF?
sunny savita: For new project, we'll again create a new virtual.
Manish: Same, same thing, we need to, again.
sunny savita: Same thing will repeat, right?
Manish: So, what I did is, today, I created a folder in the deductive. So, here, just,
manas: That's true.
Manish: by you, I installed, like, UBP install, and then after that, we just, we checked the version, and it is just successfully installed, but when I.
Manish: trying to find a list for UB Python list, so I'm not able to find the 3.11.
sunny savita: For the download it, no, download it.
sunny savita: Write the command ubpython install, and then write whatever version you want to be installed, then mention that, okay?
Manish: Yeah, so, as per you, means whatever version is available, only I can use online here, so I'm not.
sunny savita: Correct, correct. Those versions only you can install, whatever UB is providing you.
Manish: I'm not able to, here, find a 3.11.
sunny savita: 3.11 is not there, 3.1… 3.12…
Manish: But in this year, I am able to find.
manas: I'm gonna be too late.
manas: Yeah, maybe…
sunny savita: you got the update, huh? If you're able to get over here, just create over here. Do it.
manas: Boom.
sunny savita: Just install it, and create a virtual environment there, okay?
Manish: No, no, so, Sani Kilja, I wanted to create a luxury… Oh, I got it!
sunny savita: what you… I got it, what you are saying. You are saying, here I'm not able to get 3.11.
Manish: Oh, yes.
sunny savita: maybe something, some updates and all might be there, I'm not sure, because I haven't faced this thing so far, so maybe they have removed something. So don't worry, if you're getting over there in another one, okay? So just keep…
Manish: In the C drive, so just why I… I just have added this folder, because this is under the C user admin, so that's why I…
sunny savita: You can test it again. Just write UBPython list, just go with the… go with this different second one. Now here, delete this CMD, delete it.
Manish: Okay.
sunny savita: Now open the new CMD.
sunny savita: Now, write the Python over here. Wait, sir, wait, wait. Write the Python.
sunny savita: I don't paperwork. Okay, exit from here.
manas: Okay, no wait.
sunny savita: Whoa… you can write one command, huh? Right over here, python-m, python-M.
Manish: Ma'am?
sunny savita: pip install.
manas: Wow.
Manish: P.
sunny savita: iPhone, iPhone upgrade, pip.
sunny savita: Upgrade.
manas: audio.
manas: I consider it.
sunny savita: iPhone, iPhone upgrade? iPhone, iPhone, sir.
Manish: Okay, okay.
Manish: Hyphen, iPhone.
sunny savita: It's space, it's space, space, right?
Manish: Yeah.
manas: Hmm.
sunny savita: Don't give a space over here, yeah.
sunny savita: It's a flag, upgrade is a flag, yeah.
sunny savita: Don't give a space. No, don't give a space why you're giving a space here?
Manish: I think it's fishy.
sunny savita: Alright, sir, upgrade iPhone, iPhone, upgrade.
Manish: Space?
Manish: Hyphen, hyphen.
sunny savita: buzz, huh?
Manish: I think that is not his face, that is showing only… wait, wait.
sunny savita: Just… just go back, huh? Now write upgrade.
Manish: Upgrade. Hyphen, hyphen, upgrade.
sunny savita: PIP. Space PIP.
Manish: Hmm.
sunny savita: Don't it?
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: Now, right over here, python hyphen m pip install.
Manish: Python hyphen M.
Manish: Pip install.
sunny savita: UV.
Manish: UV.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: Now, right over here, UB List. UB Python list.
sunny savita: You're getting the CPython 3.11, right?
Manish: Yeah.
Manish: So, just know… Month period?
sunny savita: Just install it, UBPython install.
Manish: Movie Python.
sunny savita: Give this… and give this name.
manas: miles.
sunny savita: See, Python interpreter name.
manas: Oh.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: Now you can create a virtual environment and follow the further step. Understood?
Manish: So now, now it is also how means I'm able to, like, get, other option, whatever you have created in your folder?
sunny savita: Correct, correct, correct. Just install the virtual… just create a virtual environment, and install all the requirements over there, okay?
Manish: By the other command, whatever you mention into the notion, correct?
sunny savita: Correct, correct. UBVNBENV, create a virtual environment, and then start writing a code and all, everything over here.
sunny savita: Check out the second class, I think Monolith already explained there, got it?
Manish: Virtual environment. Okay. Got it.
Manish: Okay, and also, when I'm running this, Python course, just, it is saying to install the extension, so…
Manish: We can install via this, here, correct? Go to here, and we can…
sunny savita: Correct, correct. Whatever extension you wanted to install, you can install that.
Manish: And also, you were… when you were running, so I am able to see the one more option, like, Jupyter or something. So, how can I get it here?
sunny savita: You can create the IPvYNV file, actually. Test IPvine, whatever file you want to create. Just write, just create one file here in AI Classes folder.
sunny savita: Oh, holy.
Manish: One file.
sunny savita: There is a new file option, new file, huh?
Manish: Bye.
sunny savita: here, test dot IPYNB.
Manish: Taste.
sunny savita: dot IPYNB.
Manish: IPU.
sunny savita: I-P-Y-N-V.
Manish: I-P-Y-E-N-B, okay?
sunny savita: V, V, V, sir, V for ball.
sunny savita: Oh, created.
sunny savita: Return top.
sunny savita: Okay.
Manish: Okay, and I'm… also, I'm not able to find that .vnv folder here.
sunny savita: vnv folder is not required. Create a virtual environment, sir. Please watch out the previous video, okay?
Manish: Okay, okay, okay, thank you.
Amit Gupta: Okay, send me some suggestions.
vsana: Hello.
sunny savita: Yeah, please go ahead.
Amit Gupta: So, actually, I'm…
Amit Gupta: Just a single question, without sharing any screen or anything. The small question is with you, Sunny. Actually, whatever you share the command for creating the virtual environment, right? The ANV name is just a name, right? We can put any name in place.
sunny savita: Oh, yeah, email you can write. Correct.
Amit Gupta: And the second question is that, even without I'm activating the environment, if I'm, copy and paste…
Amit Gupta: department.txt inside the envy folder.
Amit Gupta: And then… Run the command.
sunny savita: No, no, no, no, don't paste recond.txt in a ENV folder, okay?
Amit Gupta: But I did that, and do that, then all the installation has run, then what is the…
sunny savita: It will be done, but it is not a good practice, no, sir? Why you are keeping that file over there?
Amit Gupta: Okay?
sunny savita: Just keep it outside, that's it.
Amit Gupta: Okay, it is standard for, project structure, right?
Amit Gupta: Just activate the environment, keep it outside, and then execute it.
sunny savita: Correct, correct.
Amit Gupta: Okay, thank you. And one more, one more thing. In chat, I'm not able to copy and paste anything.
Amit Gupta: It means that…
sunny savita: So it's the Zoom setting, maybe, we'll have to check that, you cannot do it, it's not, it is in a… actually, in a big webinar, we set the Zoom setting like that only. So, don't worry, I'm sharing everything, whatever you require. Okay, don't worry about that.
Amit Gupta: Kisha, thank you.
Abhigya: Sir, can I do?
Amit Gupta: Yeah, yeah, please.
sunny savita: Yeah, America is done now, Manas, our senior.
manas: Everyone is dead right.
sunny savita: Manasso can share the screen.
manas: Yeah.
manas: I'm sharing my screen.
manas: So what I'm asking, actually.
manas: So, basically, when we work with a team, so suppose, in, like, when we work with a team, so, in case, if I'm work… working on the pull… putting the code from there.
manas: And, and then, and then, suppose this already UV, he has already used.
manas: So, whether I need to use UV add or UVINIT would be fine, because suppose if in that file already, TOML file is already there…
sunny savita: Don't use UB init, UB add, just use ub pipip command, sir, that's it, okay?
manas: Okay, that would be fine, because, if I'm all working on a branch, so suppose existing code, and that person has used, UV, and he has also created the Toml file, then… then I should, I should,
manas: use it.
sunny savita: Managing a project like that, if you're managing a project like that, then use UBIT command, okay?
sunny savita: You are saying, if someone already used that… someone already created a Taml file or other UB-related file, then I need to use that, yes. In that case, you can do it, actually.
manas: Okay, okay.
manas: Right. Like, one motion.
sunny savita: Oh, Manas is coming now. Srinivas, please go ahead.
Mohan Bollam: Mohan.
Srinivas: Yes, so can I… can I share my screen?
sunny savita: Yeah, you can say. Yeah, guys, I will come to you, don't worry, be there. Mohan, Balan, Bolam, other folks.
Abhigya: Can I share my screen after this?
sunny savita: Wait, wait, wait. Sinivasia, please go ahead, Sinivas.
Srinivas: So, when I run the requirement.txt, so I get these type of warnings. Is this normal, or, like.
Srinivas: Something to do with the version of the Python.
sunny savita: What is a warning? Can you scroll down?
Srinivas: I thought.
sunny savita: It's fine, sir. I think, it is because of the mismatch of some version.
sunny savita: You're not getting that error, right? See library installation error, right?
Srinivas: No, no, it's not error, it's all warnings, like, related to… Oh, that's fine.
sunny savita: you're gonna…
Srinivas: Yeah, Gen SIM test.
Srinivas: Okay, and also, like, if I, want to, execute this, right? Like, so the IPYNB file?
Srinivas: If I… if I run this cell, it's asking.
Aruna Lorensuhewa (Ruhuna): Select.
Srinivas: the environment.
Srinivas: You can select the Python environment.
Srinivas: 3-1.
sunny savita: Yes.
Srinivas: Okay.
sunny savita: Alright, oh, wait, close it, close this window.
sunny savita: Now over the terminal, go with the terminal.
sunny savita: Yeah, now right over here, UBP pencil, IPY kernel.
Srinivas: UV pip…
sunny savita: We've installed IPY kernel.
Srinivas: IPY… Cardinal.
sunny savita: kernel, hit enter.
Srinivas: That's it.
sunny savita: Yeah, now again, don't it? Okay.
Srinivas: Somehow it is taking longer, like…
Srinivas: You see this? It is still…
sunny savita: Where it's true.
sunny savita: If you're system to system, it varies.
sunny savita: Do one thing, Ctrl-Shift-P, press Ctrl-Shift-P.
Srinivas: Ctrl-Shift-B.
sunny savita: Now, right here, reload Window.
Srinivas: Reload.
sunny savita: Reload the window.
sunny savita: Now run it again.
sunny savita: Hmm, select the Python.environment, ENV.
sunny savita: Now on it.
Srinivas: Hmm.
sunny savita: Okay.
Srinivas: Yeah, I think, no, it's okay.
Srinivas: Yep, alright, that's all I have.
sunny savita: Yeah, thanks.
Srinivas: Thank you, signing…
sunny savita: Thank you, Saty.
Abhigya: connection.
vishnuvardhan kandati: a knee.
sunny savita: Yeah, Avik Gyar, please go ahead.
Ambika Prasad: Hello?
sunny savita: Yeah, yeah, Ambika, guys, wait, I will come to you guys, okay? Wait, please.
Abhigya: Can you share… screen my screen, Sam?
sunny savita: Yeah, I can see.
Abhigya: So, sir, I have one doubt, like, I have installed this, requirement test, but I don't see anything in my term under dependency, so…
sunny savita: Don't worry, sir, don't worry, let it be, okay?
Abhigya: Okay, so, like, it is not required?
sunny savita: No, it is not required, actually.
Abhigya: And the second thing is that I'm not able to select any kernel here to run this.
sunny savita: Click on that.
Abhigya: Asking me to… Type something.
sunny savita: I have to choose.
sunny savita: Why it is loading in your system.
Abhigya: Not sure.
sunny savita: So, go with the view, view command palette.
Abhigya: Yeah.
sunny savita: Reload the window here.
sunny savita: Right, reload window.
sunny savita: No, check again.
Abhigya: No, it's still same thing.
sunny savita: Restart the system, sir, and then check, okay?
Abhigya: System.
sunny savita: Yeah, restart your laptop, then check.
Abhigya: Okay, because I have selected, like, environment also.
Abhigya: How do we select a Python?
sunny savita: Select Interpreter, first option.
sunny savita: You can select that, okay? But see, it is where it is selecting that.
sunny savita: Porillo?
sunny savita: file only, not for this IPYNB specifically. Kernel is not getting selected. Select this environment, do it.
sunny savita: Now see, kernel didn't select.
Abhigya: Yeah.
sunny savita: Because something… some issue is with your system only. Loading, it is not loading.
sunny savita: At that time. Restart the system, it will work, okay?
Abhigya: Okay.
sunny savita: Yeah.
sunny savita: Okay, Srinu, please share the screen.
Srinu: Yeah, thanks, and yeah, thanks, Sunny, for the detailed explanation.
sunny savita: Thank you.
Srinu: really getting, excited for the explanation of your theory. Sunny, actually, first thing, I want to understand the difference between this VENV and ENV.
Srinu: What is the difference?
sunny savita: Nothing, sir. See, by default, it will provide you the environment. If you will write UB in it or UB add, okay, that's it.
Srinu: Okay. And one more thing, and initially, it was… I was having 3.14. Now, after you said to install, 3.11, I did all the comments which you have provided. So, still, actually, in the log file, it is showing 3.14 only.
Srinu: So, like, instead, like, without deleting.
sunny savita: No worries, sir, you can delete that. You can, again, run the UB add if you want this log file, that's it. Or manually also, you can check that, okay? Manually, also, you can change that, okay?
Srinu: Okay, I deleted and I ran the UV log file, but it didn't update, so… yeah, maybe, okay. The option is to change it manually only?
sunny savita: Manually also. No worries about it.
Srinu: Okay.
Srinu: So, after changing, what is the command to reflect it, automatically it gets deflected.
sunny savita: No, no, no, don't worry about that. See, we are not discussing this UBLock and all right now, okay? So don't be into that, I would say.
sunny savita: Just use a simple… let's create a simple environment, install the requirement, that's it, okay? If you don't know anything, sir, just… see, if you don't know anything.
sunny savita: Let it be, this thing, okay? Just work with me. Once we'll reach out to this level, you will automatically get. Because, see, to understand all this thing, na, at least we'll have to do one project.
Srinu: Okay, got it, got it.
sunny savita: This entire thing is being provided by… they have provided us for the… for managing the project, actually.
sunny savita: Right? So, with this simple practical, with this simple IPYNV execution, I cannot discuss this thing. UB log, UB… this PyProject, TOML file, okay? This all the thing is required to port your project from one environment to another environment. So, as of now, we are not doing such thing, so let it be, okay?
Srinu: Okay, okay, yeah, thanks, Anne.
sunny savita: Thank you.
Nagesh: Hi, Sunny. Nagishio, can I share my screen?
sunny savita: Okay, guys, so, now I'm coming to the panelist attendees again. Yeah, Nagesh Arijit. Guys, would you like to share the screen?
Nagesh: I can share. I also had the similar issue, let me quickly share.
sunny savita: You guys, if you want to share the screen, I'm calling the name, please say, yes, I wanted to share. Nagesh, Ambika, would you like to share the screen?
Ambika Prasad: Hello?
sunny savita: Yeah, Ambika, you would like to share the screen?
Ambika Prasad: No, I don't have anything to say.
sunny savita: Okay, okay, wait, wait for a second only, wait. Arjit, would you like to share the screen?
ARIJIT MITRA: No, no, I just have general query.
sunny savita: Okay, Mohan, would you like to share the screen?
Mohan Bollam: Yeah, yes, yes, I did.
sunny savita: Okay, additional panelists. Tej, would you like to share the screen?
Tej: Yes.
sunny savita: Okay, adding in a panelist. Arun, Arun now, would you like to share the screen?
Nagesh: Tanya, my screen is visible.
sunny savita: Wait, Nagesh, coming to you.
Aruna Lorensuhewa (Ruhuna): I just want to talk.
sunny savita: Charles, would you like to share the screen? Charles?
sunny savita: Okay, Basana, would you like to share the screen?
sunny savita: Okay. Vishnu? Vishnu… Varden.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Yes, Sunny, yeah. I have a specific question, but I'm not sure whether to share. Python prerequisites, it is not showing in the… my list.
sunny savita: If you can share the screen, I'll check that, right?
vishnuvardhan kandati: Yeah, yeah, sure.
sunny savita: Okay, guys, so I'm coming to the panelists, let me clarify this verbal doubt, couple of verbal doubts. So, yeah, Amika, what's your doubt? Please go ahead.
Ambika Prasad: So, Sunny, thank you for your detailed session, everyone. I appreciate it. So, just, I have a question. You explained, like, we use the embedding for words, sentence, paragraphs, all that thing.
Ambika Prasad: And in… you gave an example, like, like, I can give you a scenario, like, eating fiber reduces heart risk, another eating, eating fruits and vegetables. So.
Ambika Prasad: So in that example, you mentioned, like,
Ambika Prasad: Although these two words, these two sentences are similar.
Ambika Prasad: Semantically, it is similar, but there was no…
Ambika Prasad: keyword matching on that, okay? So, in that case, like.
Ambika Prasad: what should I approach? Like, could we go with the embedding for the sentence, or what, like, how exactly we use that, the embedding? Correct.
sunny savita: Embedding, you should go with the embedding, actually.
Ambika Prasad: No, I'm just asking, like, whether it is going for this embedding for sentence or what? Because if the eatings… we consider the eating's embedding, it has a… it has some meaning, like, based on this context, like, the fiber reduces, all that things.
Ambika Prasad: Similarly, in the other sentence, like, where you have the eating fruits and vegetables, it has some other meaning.
Ambika Prasad: But if you go with the sentence.
Ambika Prasad: It has one embedding vector, right? The four sentence.
sunny savita: Hmm.
Ambika Prasad: Right? So my question is, like, whether we should go with embedding of that word by word, or with a sentence, or paragraph.
sunny savita: Sentence embedding, sir. Sentence embedding, actually.
Ambika Prasad: So, how you decide that whether I should go for a sentence, or a paragraph, or a word?
sunny savita: No, we go with the sentence embedding only.
sunny savita: Okay. Either we chunk that paragraph, if we have a bigger paragraph, we have so many tokens, we chunk into the smallest small token, and then only we embed that.
sunny savita: Okay? We never, like, embed the entire paragraph.
sunny savita: Okay.
sunny savita: So we always chunk the data, then only we make the embedding of it. Got it.
Ambika Prasad: We'll go for this sentence embedding.
sunny savita: Yeah, we always go for the sentence embedding only, because nowadays we don't use those word embedding model in the classical model. We use the transform-based model only, which is able to convert any sort of a sentence, any paragraph, into the embedding, okay?
Ambika Prasad: to where exactly this WAD embedding will going to be used.
sunny savita: Word embedding, sir, we don't use that directly. It is being used internally in the transformer model and all, okay?
Charles Fon: them?
Ambika Prasad: And what about the paragraph?
sunny savita: That's what I'm saying, no? So, let's say you have a paragraph. Let's say aapke wa saur.
Ambika Prasad: Usmevi…
sunny savita: mein convert karna.
Ambika Prasad: Huh.
sunny savita: aapka model, maybe garath result de saktai, ana, aur iska requirement heavy kin nahi, bid samajina pada gana, to ye chi ja pukap sama jagi, jaab rack padhoge, jao vector database handle karoge, document data ko handle karoge, tohara chijabi ang ye aay ga, actually.
sunny savita: application kya hunge woh bhi ange ayga, tawa ko picture clear hoga wala.
sunny savita: Got it.
Ambika Prasad: I just have a question, like, whether we'll go for this word or sentence background, like, which case we'll use that.
sunny savita: Word embedding ka, jarwat nahi padega. Wo jab padaiga, when it is required, the word embedding, when we are training the model.
sunny savita: Okay, if we are using the transformer model for training the data and all, right? Training… whenever we are training the one, us time per requirement ho guys, ka. Specific case may requirement usak tay.
sunny savita: Word ko, sentence ko, koi bhi, kisi bhi type ki data form, sentence model sehi, kar sakte hain. Me aapko practically the khadunga. Next is my classmate.
sunny savita: Okay.
Ambika Prasad: take a certain thing. Or a, not a question, like, can we know, like, what is our, queue, like, in the… when we're waiting for that?
Ambika Prasad: Like, we are waiting for a long time, like, can we know that what is our.
Ambika Prasad: in the queue, in the Zoom.
Ambika Prasad: Is there any way, like, we can know that?
sunny savita: No, sir. See, I would say, just raise the hand, okay? I'll manage that. So, whether you might get a first chance, or you might get a last, okay?
Ambika Prasad: Oh, okay, that's on…
sunny savita: That's it, yeah.
Ambika Prasad: Thank you.
sunny savita: I'm not managing any position queue, or I'm not going through with any A, B, C, D, something like that, okay?
Ambika Prasad: It'll be first and foresee, first.
Ambika Prasad: So, just want to know, like, what is your position in that queue?
sunny savita: No, no, no, no, just raise the hand if you have any urgency, if you have something, right? If you're waiting for so long, just mention in the chat, okay? I'm continuously monitoring that, got it?
Ambika Prasad: Okay, okay, thank you, Sunny. Thank you. Bye.
sunny savita: Sure, so thank you, bye.
Nagesh: Hi, Sanisa, can I… go ahead.
sunny savita: Okay, now, Nagesh, please share this side.
Mohan Bollam: Perfect.
Riyaz Khan Thrise Nathan: Certainly, I have general query.
sunny savita: Yeah, Nagesh, please share the screen.
Nagesh: Yes, I'm chatting Boxer.
Nagesh: Let me know once everybody does my screen.
Nagesh: Is it visible, basically.
sunny savita: Yeah, it is visible.
Nagesh: I don't know.
Nagesh: Yeah, so, like, actually, I had… I tried to install, but because of this request Python condition.
Nagesh: The 3.11 is not getting installed, am I correct?
Nagesh: Like, so you're…
sunny savita: 0.11… See, Python 3.11 is there now, right?
Nagesh: It is there.
Nagesh: So, I'm getting this warning, and after that, post that, I'm getting.
sunny savita: Scroll down, scroll down, scroll down.
sunny savita: Oh, slow down, go to the last.
Nagesh: He'll have to, okay.
sunny savita: write Python here.
sunny savita: You don't have Python in your system.
sunny savita: Click on this get.
sunny savita: You haven't seen the previous videos?
Nagesh: I had installed, actually, some…
Nagesh: if I… if I did a, do the Python list, right, so it was showing in the downloaded, and also, I did this thing.
sunny savita: In your system, Python should be there, actually.
Nagesh: Come on.
Nagesh: Should I close this?
sunny savita: Yeah, now open it, click on open.
sunny savita: Yeah, yes. Yeah, then hit enter, yes.
sunny savita: Yeah, yes.
Nagesh: Let's take a picture.
vsana: Sunny, while installing, like, can we go for a quick cushion?
vsana: God, do you want us to…
sunny savita: amazing.
sunny savita: Yeah, now just close it.
sunny savita: Write Python there now.
sunny savita: Okay, now create a virtual environment with 3.11.
sunny savita: Exit from here.
sunny savita: Now, write UV Python list.
sunny savita: Okay, now use 3.11, and create a virtual environment. UBND.
sunny savita: ENV?
sunny savita: You already have an environment with an E and B, so first delete that left-hand side, see?
sunny savita: Delete that ENV first.
sunny savita: Left-hand side, in your workspace, see?
sunny savita: Work session.
Nagesh: Howdy, whoa.
sunny savita: Left-hand side see, sir, you already created ENV now.
sunny savita: Delete this both, the NVEND, delete it.
sunny savita: Now, right here, UVBNB.
sunny savita: U, B, B, N, B, ENV.
sunny savita: Now give the name of the interpreter, 3.11.
sunny savita: Copy the name and paste it here. See Python interpreter.
sunny savita: Hit enter.
sunny savita: Okay, you didn't mention Python, no? Just press up arrow.
sunny savita: Yeah, back… now go back? Yeah, right, hyphen hyphen Python.
sunny savita: Python hyphen Python.
sunny savita: Yeah, space?
sunny savita: Now hit enter.
sunny savita: Now, activate this environment.
sunny savita: Copy this path, activate with, copy this path, and paste it here.
sunny savita: Now, run this command, ubbip install hyphen-recon.txt.
sunny savita: hyphen R.O.
sunny savita: Requirements.txt, sir. File name is wrong.
Nagesh: Whisk.
sunny savita: Okay, it is working now.
Nagesh: Okay, thank you so much, sir. Thank you so much.
sunny savita: Okay, guys, just give me 2 minutes, okay? I'm coming back.
sunny savita: Yeah, guys, so we can resume again. Yeah, Tej, please share the screen.
Tej: Okay, let me share my screen.
Tej: Can you see my screen?
sunny savita: Yeah, I can see.
Tej: So, two things. One, even though I select 311.
Tej: It is not.
Tej: Updating to 3.11, and the requirements.txt…
sunny savita: Your skin, you will have to zoom the screen. I think you are showing over the monitor, right?
Tej: Okay, so let me… .
sunny savita: Zoom itself.
Tej: resume it?
Tej: Let me actually move towards another monitor.
sunny savita: Over the view, view Zoom, yeah. Or else you can share your different… Yeah, now it is fine.
Tej: Is it providing? Okay.
Tej: So, if you see here, I selected… 3-1.
Tej: But… But even though I did the source and activate.
sunny savita: Hmm.
Tej: It is still showing 314.
sunny savita: by 10.
sunny savita: You created a 311 now.
Tej: Huh.
sunny savita: What is the environment name?
sunny savita: EV end.
sunny savita: EVN. Select this now, select this environment, na, EVN.
Tej: Okay, why is it EVN? It should be ENV, right?
sunny savita: You've written a wrong name, that's why.
sunny savita: Just click on this EVN.
Tej: Okay.
sunny savita: Click on the EVN.
sunny savita: Folder, event folder.
sunny savita: Okay. Ben?
sunny savita: Activate.bat.bat.
sunny savita: You are working on a Mac, right?
Tej: Mac, yeah.
sunny savita: Oh, then activate only, first one.
sunny savita: Copy it, copy the path.
sunny savita: Right-click, copy the path.
sunny savita: Paste it here, right-click, copy the path, paste here.
sunny savita: Huh. Hit enter.
Tej: Permission denied.
sunny savita: Delete this terminal, open the new terminal, okay?
Tej: And just start, from beginning, or just activate, hit activate?
sunny savita: Just copy the path and paste it over here.
sunny savita: I think you will have to write source activate, right? Mention source activate before this path.
sunny savita: Source, activate, and then do it.
sunny savita: Source activate.
sunny savita: Source, activate.
sunny savita: No, sir, huh, it is done. Now write this command. Python, now check.
sunny savita: Check with the Python, yeah, it is there.
Tej: Okay.
sunny savita: Okay, exit, and then install the requirements, okay?
Tej: Okay, requirements… I had problem with,
Tej: You know, all the original requirements.
Tej: I'll just copy-paste again really quick.
sunny savita: Yeah, yeah, please do it, sir, okay?
vishnuvardhan kandati: Okay.
sunny savita: Yeah, Mohan, please share the screen.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Sunny, my battery is down. Is it okay if I can share? Vishnu here, I mean, traveling.
vishnuvardhan kandati: I can be quick.
sunny savita: Yeah, yeah, you can share.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Yeah.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Let me know if you're able to see my screen.
sunny savita: Yeah, I can see.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Yeah, the problem is, when I'm… Follow me.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Hello?
vishnuvardhan kandati: Huh.
sunny savita: Yeah, yeah, I can hear you. Please go ahead.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Yeah. So… Yeah.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Yeah, I have a Python prerequisites, I mean, when I'm clicking that, I could not see the courses related to it. That is my problem.
sunny savita: When I'm clicking, I couldn't see the course.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Yeah, yeah.
sunny savita: Go with the dashboard now, sir, dashboard. Open the dashboard.
sunny savita: Open your dashboard.
sunny savita: Just maximize it, maximize it.
sunny savita: Open the dashboard.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Dashboard…
sunny savita: Open the browser, search Krisha Academy. Do it.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Okay, let me go there.
Mohan Bollam: Not here, on the browser.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Okay.
sunny savita: Kirish AI Academy, sir, Kirish AI Academy.
sunny savita: Krish AI Academy, sir, Krish AI Academy.
Tej: My requirements is failing, if you need.
sunny savita: Yeah, now log in first.
sunny savita: Login over there.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Yeah, it is… Going through the screen.
vishnuvardhan kandati: When I'm logged… try to log in.
sunny savita: Log in with your mail.
Charles Fon: Tomasi, she connecting there.
Charles Fon: Why you say I'mma see? Are you gonna buy me?
Charles Fon: You weren't.
Charles Fon: You're going by yourself.
Charles Fon: I couldn't buy myself, who reminded me about it?
Charles Fon: Was I thinking of it?
Charles Fon: Oops.
sunny savita: Courses go inside the course.
sunny savita: Click on the course.
sunny savita: Click on the dashboard.
sunny savita: See, here is a Python. Click on it.
sunny savita: Click on the link.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Yeah, this is going somewhere else, right? This is the pro- I mean…
vishnuvardhan kandati: You know.
sunny savita: So it is opening in the YouTube, right? Open that.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Yeah,
sunny savita: Yeah, that's it.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Oh, okay. So, I have to go, like, each time to YouTube, and from there, I have to complete all these things.
sunny savita: Correct, correct.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Sunny, is this the case?
sunny savita: Yes, yes, correct.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Okay.
sunny savita: No.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Thank you, Sam. Yeah, that's all. And also, other question I have is, like.
sunny savita: Okay, Mohan, can you share the screen? I think Vishnu is.
Mohan Bollam: God.
sunny savita: Turning.
Mohan Bollam: Yeah, Sonia, I'm sharing my screen.
sunny savita: Yeah, please share it.
Mohan Bollam: Thank you, Sunny, for these wonderful sessions.
sunny savita: Thank you, sir.
Mohan Bollam: It is a great opportunity to learn, generative AI and agility AI.
Mohan Bollam: So, Sarni, I set up this project, as you said, in my VS.
sunny savita: school.
Mohan Bollam: But, but it is taking, every time, 3.14 only, I'm not able to get this, requirements.txt file. Can you check once?
sunny savita: Sir, remove this file, sir. Okay, please, don't use it. Remove it.
sunny savita: Did I show you this file, pyproject.taml?
Mohan Bollam: Remove it.
sunny savita: Huh, remove it. Why you are using this as of now?
sunny savita: There is no such use, as of now, of this file.
Mohan Bollam: Okay.
sunny savita: Okay, that's it, sir. Remove it, be happy, whatever I'm doing, just do it, according to that, okay?
Mohan Bollam: Okay, yeah, give me one moment. Just do…
Mohan Bollam: So now, now if I use this one.
Mohan Bollam: Or do I need to come from the.
sunny savita: Don't use this one, sir. Use this pip install one. Ub pipipinstall require.txt.
sunny savita: Today I've given you commands now, right? Use those commands.
sunny savita: Not here, sir. First exit from here, right exit.
sunny savita: Hmm, open parenthesis, close parenthesis.
sunny savita: See, it is saying, use Excel.
Mohan Bollam: Yeah, my God.
sunny savita: Oh.
Mohan Bollam: Brilliant.
sunny savita: Now, paste it over here.
sunny savita: Remove the TXT in the starting of the command.
sunny savita: Now run it.
sunny savita: I think we created a virtual environment.
sunny savita: With 3.12. Just create with 3.11, keep the recline.txt, and then install it, okay?
Mohan Bollam: How can I come from the starting point again?
sunny savita: See, sir, this is, don't follow this one, because this is a general command to learn all the UVs and all. I shared one more link today, yes or no?
Mohan Bollam: Okay, yeah, yes.
sunny savita: Oh, yeah, open…
Mohan Bollam: Let me open that one.
sunny savita: Yo.
Tej: Then you're saying we should remove the py project TOML file? It's not needed?
sunny savita: Yeah, don't use that file currently, okay? Remove that.
Tej: Because if I remove that, when I try to install requirements.txt file, It is.
Tej: Complaining about that file.
sunny savita: UBEd will ask that, UVPinstall will not ask about it, okay?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: -Oh.
Tej: Okay.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Sonny, he needs to, or he needs to delete the VNV as well, right?
sunny savita: Did you do the BLB also, taught BNB also.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: block as well. All the UV native, he needs to delete.
sunny savita: Just delete those ones as of now. Once we'll start with the project now, we'll discuss over there, okay?
Tej: So, we'll say UVP… Yeah, so this is…
sunny savita: This is the command you need to follow, this is the command you need to follow, okay?
sunny savita: So do one thing.
Mohan Bollam: Yeah, wait.
sunny savita: Wait, guys, step by step, Mon, do one thing.
sunny savita: So first of all, you should have this recline.txt file. Do you have this recline.txt file?
Mohan Bollam: No, I don't have.
sunny savita: Huh, then create it, no, first.
Mohan Bollam: how to, I mean, I'm adding, UV added something, but.
sunny savita: No, sir, that is for the Python, that is for the Python. Require.txt is a separate file, okay?
Mohan Bollam: Oh, okay, I need to add… create that one.
sunny savita: Oh, you need to create that one.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: He's creating within the ENV, I guess.
sunny savita: Don't create within an ENV, create outside of the ENV, okay?
Mohan Bollam: I'm creating here, not there.
sunny savita: Hmm, delete this VNB first, delete it.
Mohan Bollam: Hold up.
sunny savita: Right-click and delete.
sunny savita: VNB dot VNB.
Mohan Bollam: Okay.
sunny savita: Hmm.
Tej: So, UBP install worked, Sunny, yeah.
sunny savita: Now create a new file in the workspace, under test.env.
sunny savita: requirements.txt, okay?
sunny savita: Yahapar, keep all that requirements, whatever requirements I shared, keep it here.
Mohan Bollam: Which one?
sunny savita: Open the GitHub, keep it from there.
sunny savita: GitHub link, sir, GitHub link.
Mohan Bollam: Okay.
Mohan Bollam: Yeah, this is on Twitter.
sunny savita: txt, requirements.txt.
Mohan Bollam: Oh, okay, okay.
sunny savita: Hmm… copy this?
sunny savita: Keep it there.
sunny savita: Hmm.
sunny savita: Ctrl-B, sorry, now write UBP pencil hyphen article.txt, that's it.
Mohan Bollam: Okay.
sunny savita: UB, sir, UV. Spelling is wrong.
Mohan Bollam: Bam.
Mohan Bollam: PIP install.
sunny savita: Hyphen r at barren.txt.
Mohan Bollam: Okay.
sunny savita: Okay, it will be installed.
Mohan Bollam: I am, I'm trying with this command, it will create a file.
sunny savita: No, don't use UB, just follow the current one, today's command, okay?
Tej: So, so we have to do this every day, the VE and V?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: No.
sunny savita: Yeah, Tej, what's your doubt? I think you are done, right?
Tej: Yeah, I mean, so do we have to do this, like, every… I see that every time we close the terminal, it is not finding Python, so we have to, like, install Python and deploy packages every time in the terminal?
sunny savita: No, you just need to activate the environment over the terminal, that's it.
Tej: Gotcha. Harbin install gig.
sunny savita: Yeah, every time.
sunny savita: If it is not detecting the… if it is not detecting automatically, then you will have to, activate it manually, okay?
Tej: Okay.
vsana: Yeah, Sunny, it's not related to the application. So, yeah, thanks for, like, it's going through very clearly, Sunny. And, so, see, you could have been related, like, a lot of new Chinese are there in the group, and also we are very new to Python, or, like, it's a genie.
vsana: So, I see, like, a couple of people are commenting, you are going slowly and all, but, like, so you are helping us to… really, you are helping, like, it's the new Chinese and the new to the EA world. So, yeah, thanks, thanks a lot, for that, your efforts.
vsana: And, so, like, my intention is, like, so after this course, right, are we good to write that, GenA developer exam or AWS, GenA developer exam is…
vsana: It's okay.
sunny savita: taking some… if, see, if you're doing some hands-on over the AWS, you can mention like that, no worries, okay?
vsana: We can try for that exam, right? Like.
sunny savita: Means, you can, like, learn the AWS-specific services.
sunny savita: Okay, AWS deployment-related services. So you can quote or… sorry, you can mention yourself as a AWS GenA engineer, if you are, like, proficient in that, AWS-specific services, got it?
vsana: Yeah, even I'm trying to target for that exam, like, it's AWS… AWS GenA developer professional exam.
vsana: Is it good with whatever you are teaching to appear?
sunny savita: Yeah, yeah, but I think you will have to learn a little more extra for that.
sunny savita: Absolutely.
vsana: Okay, okay.
sunny savita: No.
vsana: Just checking.
sunny savita: Check out this labour, share with me. I will give you the resources if it is available. You can learn from there, okay?
vsana: Yeah, yeah, sure, sure, Sunny, yeah. But yeah, thanks again, like, it's a file, going with a slow phase.
vsana: Yeah, continue.
sunny savita: Thank you, sir. Thank you very much.
sunny savita: Yeah, go, John.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: I mean, I…
sunny savita: Charles' phone, please go ahead.
Charles Fon: Yes, can I share my screen?
sunny savita: Yeah, you can share.
Charles Fon: I'm just… I'm almost having the same problem with the…
Charles Fon: I think just… I'm scared to delete my ENV, that's the problem.
Charles Fon: I just wouldn't…
sunny savita: Charles, I think you're addressed.
Charles Fon: And it's…
sunny savita: Show it out so big.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: My doubt is on, like, for example, two doubts I had. So, one is, for example, yesterday it happened with me. So, for example, this session is actually activated for 3 hours, and then after 3 hours, you start generally the doubt sharing session, right? So now, after 3 hours, if you go to the workshop, you will not see… you will see the join button.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: disabled.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, so now, the problem is, if the… after 3 hours, let's say I am… I am having a question.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: And then, somehow, due to internet or something else, I got disconnected, then I don't have any link for rejoining.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: So, I have…
sunny savita: No, I don't think like that. I don't think like that, actually.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: One thing like that, buds.
sunny savita: You are not getting the rejoining option?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: No, if you… if you just go right now, in that thing, or just ask somebody to go there, you will see the join button is deactivated.
sunny savita: Hmm.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, so…
sunny savita: Okay, okay. The June, I think the timeframe is going to be complete.
sunny savita: Like, with your past, maybe the past, basically, webinar or something like that. But I think once you will click on the link, na, you will, you will be directly…
sunny savita: Yeah, you will be directly inside the meeting only, okay?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Which link? That is the thing.
sunny savita: This class number.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Oh!
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: No, no, that is what I'm saying. When we are joining this session, we are going to workshop, we are going… we are select… clicking on the join button, and then it automatically opens Zoom and automatically get us joined. Okay, now the point is that after 3 hours, this Zoom join button is got deactivated.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: So now we don't have… if we disconnect it, we don't have any link to join again.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: That is the problem.
sunny savita: Just check out the mail, mail, mail, link, atay aapko, okay? Mail, mail. And even over the workshop also, once you will go with the Krishnakacademy.com workshop section, there also you will find out a link, okay?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: No, the link, what is from three dots I am getting, that is redirecting me to Krishnag.in website.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: I have tried that as well, but I will try, like, whether there is a Zoom link or not in the mail.
sunny savita: Okay, I will check with my team if any such thing.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yeah.
sunny savita: We'll check that, okay.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Another second point is, like, for example, I also, going through your, previous course.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: So there also, whenever you are editing any IPNV file during the practical classes, you keep on pushing that to your GitHub, and then again, taking back from that GitHub, for example, something you have given in the GitHub repository right today. And again and again, we need to go there and just selecting the file and download it. So, it is based, it is
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: better to clone the repository or clone the folder. So, for that, I have seen, I have used a Git clone, but it is saying that JIT is not, recognized. That means it is not installed in my laptop. It can happen because my laptop is a brand new laptop. So, I searched the JIT in the web. It is redirecting me something JIT SRM website.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: So, is that the website I need to download JITA install?
sunny savita: Yeah, you can do one thing. You can install the Git first inside your system.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Hmm?
sunny savita: Okay, and then you can clone it. All the GET command will be working.
sunny savita: Mono, we can show you how to install the Git and all.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: No, just one thing, like, I… for the first step, installation on JIT. So, I'm going to Google, I'm searching Jet, it is taking me to JJIT-SRN website.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: From there, I can download. Is that the website I need to download, or, like.
sunny savita: Yeah, yeah, from that website only, sir, correct.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, so now I will, in, like, install JIT, and then how I will clone, push, commit, all this kind of thing. Do you have any, tutorial video?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: So that means I will… I will check…
sunny savita: Sir, if I will have, I will share in the next class, okay?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: next class, I'll not be there, sorry, I have said. So, give me.
sunny savita: No, no, you can ask me in the chat itself, I can share some commands, you can run out those commands and all, okay?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, so I will send you a mail then, because next class I will not be there, I'll be traveling. So, either 5th class means a Sunday class, or I will send you a mail. If you give me any tutorial or comment, whatever, so that I can set up that, so that it would be easier to commute with your updates.
sunny savita: Yeah, yeah, yeah, sure, sure, sure. Guy got it.
sunny savita: Nope.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Thank you, thank you, thank you, nothing else.
sunny savita: Thank you.
sunny savita: Yep.
ARIJIT MITRA: Hi, Sunil.
Aruna Lorensuhewa (Ruhuna): Oh.
sunny savita: Can you copy this, name, Charles, and,
sunny savita: Can you mention it over here? The CPython 3.1115, this name?
Charles Fon: Yeah, my mouse is… it's like, if you take control of the mouse, so my mouse cannot allow me to copy.
sunny savita: Yeah. You can do it now, you can, you can.
Charles Fon: Let me see.
sunny savita: 3-point line.
Charles Fon: I already installed… I did install the one.
sunny savita: Copy, copy the name and paste it there, okay? 3.11, scroll up.
sunny savita: Yep.
Charles Fon: This one…
sunny savita: Copy this name?
Charles Fon: This one.
sunny savita: And, yeah, copy it.
sunny savita: Scroll down.
sunny savita: Paste it after the hyphen hyphen Python.
Charles Fon: It's like something, like, something's the dis… Eliminate it.
sunny savita: Hit enter, hit enter.
sunny savita: Huh. Now, again, right, UB BNB?
Charles Fon: Nope.
Charles Fon: No, just so long, yeah, they have not done paste in paste.
sunny savita: Right? Now, before this one, wait, wait, wait.
sunny savita: Wait, sir, wait.
sunny savita: Let me handle that weight.
sunny savita: Okay, it is created, now activate the environment and install the regan.txt, okay? Totally working. Got it?
Charles Fon: Okay, okay.
sunny savita: Dang.
sunny savita: Yeah, guys, any more doubt? Otherwise, I'll close the session.
ARIJIT MITRA: Yeah, Sunny, I have just some general doubts, if that's okay.
sunny savita: ERG, please.
ARIJIT MITRA: Yeah, yeah, sure, hope you're doing good. The session was really good. So I have some queries, which is that, like.
ARIJIT MITRA: for text generation or text summarization tasks, we can directly use LLMs, right? Where internally the embedding happens, and for RAC-based applications, we can explicitly use the LLM embedding models to generate the embeddings and store them. But like for traditional NLP tasks, like,
ARIJIT MITRA: Text classification, let's say, and we are working in a healthcare or finance domain where the explainability matters, so we will be using machine learning models, like linear model, like logistic regression or decision trees.
ARIJIT MITRA: So, that place are… in the industry, from your years of expertise, what would you say? It means people are using TFID Word2Vec, or they have completely switched to
ARIJIT MITRA: the transformer LLM embedding is for…
sunny savita: Still, people are using, even in the interview, also, it is being asked, actually. Okay.
ARIJIT MITRA: Okay.
sunny savita: So, wherever we can use those, those encoding methods, just to represent our… just to represent our data.
ARIJIT MITRA: Okay, so this trade-off, when to use which, will you be showing us that later in this curriculum?
sunny savita: I can mention those points in the next class, okay? Sure.
sunny savita: And understand in a better way, okay?
ARIJIT MITRA: Perfect, perfect, thank you so much. And, another thing is that from your years of expertise, again, like, as a developer, when we are working in a project in the industry, so which framework we work on? Like, let's say as a developer, I want to work in the LangChain LandGraph ecosystem, so is it dependent on the developer's requirement, or the client's requirements?
sunny savita: No, it depends on the architect, basically, which framework he's deciding to design the application, okay?
ARIJIT MITRA: Okay, so we have to know the means, diverse, frameworks. Correct.
sunny savita: So you are a tech lead, if you are an architect, then you should have that, in-depth knowledge about the frame. Means, you should have the broader knowledge, actually, right?
ARIJIT MITRA: Got it, got it, okay, okay. And one last thing is that, so later when we create end-to-end projects, so we will be definitely, I guess, using Docker to containerize the applications.
ARIJIT MITRA: So, and deploying them. So, will we be using Kubernetes for scalability of those containers, as per user load?
sunny savita: On deployment side, to Kubernetes, you use Utai, no? Right? Your microservice barani hai, scalable application banana hai, toh, we use karnapadega, we scale up option you know, right?
ARIJIT MITRA: Got it, got it, okay. Actually, I'm not from a computer science background, I've been just learning for the past few months around this MLOps and basic things, so that's why I…
sunny savita: Sir, CC, if you don't belong to any computer science background and all, you still, like, you can learn tech in a well manner. I see people are from even MSc, BSC background, they are a very good developer, actually, right? So, this, all the thing comes from the experience only. So, if you are in a learning phase, do it, then implement it.
sunny savita: And then take some good real-time project, okay?
ARIJIT MITRA: Sure, sure, sure. That's, good. Thank you so much for your time, Sam.
ARIJIT MITRA: Thank you so much.
sunny savita: Thank you, sir.
sunny savita: Yeah, Arun, what's your doubt?
Aruna Lorensuhewa (Ruhuna): Yeah, I just… I don't have any, actually, issue with the theoretical part.
Aruna Lorensuhewa (Ruhuna): But I suggest you to have a maybe small session, 15 to 30 minutes before starting the practical about how to configure this environment, how to work with the
Aruna Lorensuhewa (Ruhuna): maybe GitHub, and also the command shell, and also the editor, and Python notebook, just to clear that out. That's what my request is.
sunny savita: Sure, sure, sure, I'll give you that heads up, don't worry, okay?
Aruna Lorensuhewa (Ruhuna): Yeah, okay, thank you, Nicholas.
Aruna Lorensuhewa (Ruhuna): In.
sunny savita: Thank you, sir. Bye.
sunny savita: Okay, guys, so I'm going to close the session now. I'll see you in the next class. Thank you, bye-bye, good night. If you have any doubt, guys, let's say if I couldn't take any sort of a doubt, just, mail to me, okay? I'll connect with you. Thank you.